PDF File: EBA GL 2020 06 Final Report on GL on loan origination and monitoring.pdf
Page 1:
FINAL REPORT – GUIDELINES ON LOAN ORIGINATION AND MONITORING 
 
 
1 
 
EBA/GL/2020/06 
29 May 2020 
 
 
Final Report 
Guidelines on loan origination and monitoring 
 
 
 

PDF File: EBA GL 2020 06 Final Report on GL on loan origination and monitoring.pdf
Page 2:
FINAL REPORT – GUIDELINES ON LOAN ORIGINATION AND MONITORING 
 
 
2 
Contents 
Executive Summary 
4 
Background and rationale 
6 
Guidelines 
12 
1. Compliance and reporting obligations 
13 
2. Subject matter, scope and definitions 
14 
Addressees 
15 
Definitions 
15 
Proportionality 
17 
3. Implementation 
18 
4. Internal governance for credit granting and monitoring 
19 
4.1 
Credit risk governance and culture 
19 
4.1.1 
Responsibilities of the management body 
19 
4.1.2 
Credit risk culture 
20 
4.2 
Credit risk appetite, strategy and credit risk limits 
20 
4.3 
Credit risk policies and procedures 
21 
4.3.1 
Anti-money laundering and counter-terrorist financing policies and procedures 23 
4.3.2 
Leveraged transactions 
24 
4.3.3 
Technology-enabled innovation for credit granting 
25 
4.3.4 
Models for creditworthiness assessment and credit decision-making 
26 
4.3.5 
Environmental, social and governance factors 
26 
4.3.6 
Environmentally sustainable lending 
27 
4.3.7 
Data infrastructure 
27 
4.4 
Credit decision-making 
28 
4.4.1 
Objectivity and impartiality in credit decision-making 
29 
4.5 
Credit risk management and internal control frameworks 
30 
4.6 
Resources and skills 
32 
4.7 
Remuneration 
32 
5. Loan origination procedures 
33 
5.1 
Information and documentation 
33 
5.2 
Assessment of borrower’s creditworthiness 
35 
5.2.1 
General provisions for lending to consumers 
35 

PDF File: EBA GL 2020 06 Final Report on GL on loan origination and monitoring.pdf
Page 3:
FINAL REPORT – GUIDELINES ON LOAN ORIGINATION AND MONITORING 
 
 
3 
5.2.2 
Lending to consumers in relation to residential immovable property 
35 
5.2.3 
Other secured lending to consumers 
36 
5.2.4 
Unsecured lending to consumers 
37 
5.2.5 
Lending to micro and small enterprises 
38 
5.2.6 
Lending to medium-sized and large enterprises 
41 
5.2.7 
Commercial real estate lending 
45 
5.2.8 
Lending for real estate development 
47 
5.2.9 
Leveraged transactions 
47 
5.2.10 Shipping finance 
48 
5.2.11 Project finance 
49 
5.3 
Credit decision and loan agreement 
50 
6. Pricing 
51 
7. Valuation of immovable and movable property 
53 
7.1 
Valuation at the point of origination 
53 
7.1.1 
Immovable property collateral 
53 
7.1.2 
Movable property collateral 
54 
7.2 
Monitoring and revaluation 
55 
7.2.1 
Immovable property collateral 
55 
7.2.2 
Movable property collateral 
57 
7.3 
Criteria for valuers 
57 
7.4 
Criteria for advanced statistical models for valuation 
58 
8. Monitoring framework 
60 
8.1 
General provisions for the credit risk monitoring framework 
60 
8.2 
Monitoring of credit exposures and borrowers 
62 
8.3 
Regular credit review of borrowers 
63 
8.4 
Monitoring of covenants 
64 
8.5 
Use of early warning indicators/watch lists in credit monitoring 
64 
Annex 1 — Credit-granting criteria 
68 
Annex 2 — Information and data for the creditworthiness assessment 
71 
Annex 3 — Metrics for credit granting and monitoring 
75 
Accompanying documents 
77 
Draft cost-benefit analysis/impact assessment 
77 
Feedback on the public consultation and on the opinion of the BSG 
84 

PDF File: EBA GL 2020 06 Final Report on GL on loan origination and monitoring.pdf
Page 4:
FINAL REPORT – GUIDELINES ON LOAN ORIGINATION AND MONITORING 
 
 
4 
Executive Summary 
The European Banking Authority (EBA) developed the Guidelines on loan origination and 
monitoring in response to the Council of the European Union’s Action Plan on tackling the high level 
of non-performing exposures. The European Council, in its July 2017 Action Plan, invited the EBA to 
‘issue detailed guidelines on banks’ loan origination, monitoring and internal governance which 
could in particular address issues such as transparency and borrower affordability assessment’. 
The objective of the guidelines is to improve institutions’ practices and associated governance 
arrangements, processes and mechanisms in relation to credit granting, in order to ensure that 
institutions have robust and prudent standards for credit risk taking, management and monitoring, 
and that newly originated loans are of high credit quality. The guidelines also aim to ensure that 
the institutions’ practices are aligned with consumer protection rules and respect fair treatment of 
consumers. Through these objectives, the EBA aims to improve the financial stability and resilience 
of the EU banking system. 
The guidelines specify the internal governance arrangements, processes and mechanisms, as laid 
down in Article 74(1) of Directive 2013/36/EU (Capital Requirements Directive, CRD) and further 
specified in the EBA Guidelines on internal governance, and requirements on credit and 
counterparty risk, as laid down in Article 79 of Directive 2013/36/EU in relation to the granting and 
monitoring of credit facilities throughout their life cycle. 
The guidelines introduce requirements for assessing the borrowers’ creditworthiness, together 
with the handling of information and data for the purposes of such assessments. These guidelines 
also further specify how to assess the creditworthiness of consumers and use consumer 
information laid down in Articles 18 and 20 of Directive 2014/17/EU (Mortgage Credit Directive, 
MCD). Furthermore, the guidelines also recognise the extension of the EBA’s scope of action in the 
review of the European Supervisory Authorities’ (ESAs’) Founding Regulations and incorporate 
guidance for the creditworthiness assessment in relation to consumer credit, in accordance with 
Article 8 of Directive 2008/48/EC on consumer credits (Consumer Credit Directive, CCD). 
To support the dual focus of the guidelines, bringing together the prudential framework and 
consumer protection aspects of credit granting, the guidelines, in particular: 
a. clarify the internal governance and control framework for the credit-granting and credit 
decision-making process, building on the requirements of the EBA Guidelines on internal 
governance (Section 4); 
b. specify requirements for the creditworthiness assessment of borrowers, differentiating 
between lending to (1) consumers, (2) micro and small enterprises and (3) medium-sized 
and large enterprises, and set out the requirements for handling information and data for 
such assessments (Section 5); 

PDF File: EBA GL 2020 06 Final Report on GL on loan origination and monitoring.pdf
Page 5:
FINAL REPORT – GUIDELINES ON LOAN ORIGINATION AND MONITORING 
 
 
5 
c. set out supervisory expectations for the risk-based pricing of loans (Section 6); 
d. provide guidance on the approaches to the valuation of immovable and movable property 
collateral at the point of credit granting, and the monitoring and review of the value of such 
collateral, based on the outcomes of the monitoring (Section 7); 
e. specify the ongoing monitoring of credit risk and credit exposures, including regular credit 
reviews of borrowers (Section 8). 
The EBA has developed these guidelines building on existing national practices and supervisory 
experience, and also addressing shortcomings in institutions’ credit-granting policies and practices, 
highlighted by the recent financial crisis. At the same time, the guidelines also reflect supervisory 
priorities and recent policy developments related to credit granting. In particular, the guidelines 
account for the growing importance of environmental, social and governance factors, and 
environmentally sustainable lending, anti-money laundering and counter-terrorist financing, as 
well as the growing use of automated and statistical models and technology-based innovation in 
the credit granting and collateral valuation. 
Next steps 
The guidelines will be translated into the official EU languages and published on the EBA’s website. 
The deadline for competent authorities to report whether they comply with the guidelines will be 
2 months after the publication of the translations. The guidelines will apply from 30 June 2021. 
 
 

PDF File: EBA GL 2020 06 Final Report on GL on loan origination and monitoring.pdf
Page 6:
FINAL REPORT – GUIDELINES ON LOAN ORIGINATION AND MONITORING 
 
 
6 
Background and rationale 
1. As part of the EU’s response to tackling the high level of non-performing exposures, the Council 
of the European Union in its July 2017 Action Plan1 invited the EBA to ‘issue detailed guidelines 
on banks’ loan origination, monitoring and internal governance which could in particular 
address issues such as transparency and borrower affordability assessment’. The Council 
stressed that ‘these guidelines should leverage on existing national experiences where 
relevant’. 
2. Within the framework of the Council’s Action Plan, the EBA has already published Guidelines 
on management of non-performing and forborne exposures2, Guidelines on disclosures of non-
performing and forborne exposures3 and developed non-performing loan (NPL) transaction 
templates 4 , with a view to improving data quality and information symmetry between 
institutions and investors in the NPL secondary markets in Europe. These previous initiatives 
aim to tackle problems around loans once they become non-performing, while the Guidelines 
on loan origination and monitoring have been developed in order to ensure that institutions 
have prudential loan origination standards in place, in order to prevent newly originated 
performing loans from becoming non-performing in the future. 
3. The guidelines specify the internal governance arrangements, processes and mechanisms, as 
laid down in Article 74(1) of Directive 2013/36/EU (CRD)5 and further specified in the EBA 
Guidelines on internal governance6, and requirements on credit and counterparty risk, as laid 
down in Article 79 of Directive 2013/36/EU in relation to the granting and monitoring of credit 
facilities throughout their life cycle. The guidelines also set out requirements for the 
creditworthiness assessment of borrowers, together with the collection of information and 
data for the purposes of such creditworthiness assessments. These guidelines also further 
specify the creditworthiness assessment of consumers laid down in Articles 18 and 20 of 
Directive 2014/17/EU (MCD) 7 and Article 8 of Directive 2008/48/EC on consumer credits 
(CCD)8. 
4. The objective of the guidelines is to improve institutions’ practices and associated governance 
arrangements, processes and mechanisms in relation to credit granting, in order to ensure that 
institutions have robust and prudent approaches to credit risk taking, management and 
                                                                                                              
1
 The 
Council 
of 
the 
EU’s 
Action 
Plan 
to 
tackle 
non-performing 
loans 
in 
Europe 
(https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/press/press-releases/2017/07/11/conclusions-non-performing-loans/). 
2 EBA/GL/2018/06. 
3 EBA/GL/2018/10. 
4 https://eba.europa.eu/risk-analysis-and-data/eba-work-on-npls 
5 OJ L 176, 27.6.2013 p. 338-436. 
6 EBA/GL/2017/11. 
7 OJ L 60, 28.2.2014 p. 34-85. 
8 OJ L 133, 22.5.2008 p. 66-92. 

PDF File: EBA GL 2020 06 Final Report on GL on loan origination and monitoring.pdf
Page 7:
FINAL REPORT – GUIDELINES ON LOAN ORIGINATION AND MONITORING 
 
 
7 
monitoring, and that newly originated loans are of high credit quality, while respecting and 
protecting the interests of consumers. By achieving these objectives, the EBA aims to improve 
the financial stability and resilience of the EU financial system. 
5. In accordance with Article 8(1)(a) of the EBA Founding Regulation, the EBA, when carrying out 
its tasks, may take into account the integration of environmental, social and governance (ESG)-
related factors. To this end, in accordance with Article 8(1)(a), these guidelines take into 
account environmental factors for loan origination and also put in place guidance for 
monitoring material ESG-related risks. 
Structure of the guidelines 
6. The main body of the guidelines comprises five sections: 
a. Section 4 provides the details for the application of the general internal governance 
framework, as set out in the EBA Guidelines on internal governance in relation to the credit-
granting process. This section looks into the following topics: (1) credit risk governance and 
culture, also explaining the specific roles of the management body; (2) credit risk appetite, 
strategy and credit risk limits, explaining how these concepts fit into the institutions’ overall 
risk appetite framework (RAF) and strategy; (3) credit risk policies and procedures, setting 
out general and specific criteria to be considered in these policies; (4) the credit decision-
making process, highlighting the principle of independence between different (e.g. 
business and risk) functions in decision-making; (5) setting out the requirements for robust 
and effective credit risk management and internal control frameworks, as part of the 
institutions’ overall risk management and control frameworks; (6) the resources, skills and 
information technology (IT) and data infrastructure that institutions should have in place 
for prudent and robust credit decision-making processes; and (7) the application of general 
remuneration requirements to credit risk granting, with a view to mitigating excessive risk 
taking in lending activities. 
In Section 4, the guidelines also set out supervisory expectations for institutions, when their 
lending activities involve leveraged transactions, technology-enabled innovations, use of 
automated models in creditworthiness assessments and credit decision-making, an 
approach to ESG factors and environmentally sustainable lending, and their data 
infrastructure. Furthermore, Section 4 refers to the application of the anti-money 
laundering (ALM) and countering the financing of terrorism (CFT) requirements in the 
context of credit granting. Institutions should note that loans that pose no credit risk may 
nevertheless pose money laundering (ML) and terrorist financing risk (TF) risk. 
In these guidelines, the EBA is introducing prominently environmentally sustainable lending 
dimensions, and is setting requirements for institutions to consider ESG factors, 
environmentally sustainable lending and associated risks in their credit policies and 
procedures. This is a significant step considering the importance of the topic for the EU, 

PDF File: EBA GL 2020 06 Final Report on GL on loan origination and monitoring.pdf
Page 8:
FINAL REPORT – GUIDELINES ON LOAN ORIGINATION AND MONITORING 
 
 
8 
with the three ESAs separately being mandated to develop reports, guidelines and technical 
standards related to sustainability. 
b. The focus of Section 5 is loan origination practices. It specifies (1) the handling and use of 
documentation of information and data from borrowers for the creditworthiness 
assessment; (2) assessment of borrowers’ creditworthiness; and (3) setting out 
requirements for credit decisions and loan agreements. The section covers lending to 
consumers and, with a view to applying the principle of proportionality, provides specific 
requirements for lending to (1) micro and small enterprises and (2) medium-sized and large 
enterprises, including both secured and unsecured lending. A set of general requirements 
for lending to consumers is followed by asset class-/product-specific requirements, 
including lending to consumers secured by immovable property, lending to consumers 
secured by other property and unsecured lending to consumers. 
Similarly, the section sets general requirements for lending to micro and small enterprises 
and medium-sized and large enterprises. The general requirements are followed by asset 
class-/product-specific requirements, including commercial real estate (CRE), real estate 
development, leveraged finance, shipping and project finance. 
While all sections of the guidelines apply in relation to the granting and monitoring of all 
credit facilities, excluding derivatives, debt securities and securities financing transactions, 
Sections 5 and 6 apply in relation to loans and advances only. Furthermore, loans and 
advances to credit institutions, investment firms, financial institutions, insurance and 
reinsurance undertakings, central banks and sovereigns, including central governments, 
regional and local authorities, and public sector entities, are excluded from the scope of 
application of Sections 5 and 6, as the creditworthiness assessment of these borrowers 
would significantly differ from the assessment of traditional loans to consumers and 
enterprises. 
c. Section 6 sets out supervisory expectations for the risk-based pricing of loans, listing a set 
of risk-based elements that institutions should consider and reflect when pricing newly 
originated loans, without prescribing any specific pricing strategies and interfering with 
business decision-making responsibilities. The objective of this section is to ensure that 
institutions implement a comprehensive framework for the pricing of loans. This section 
does not prescribe any particular pricing strategies, as that remains the business 
responsibility of institutions themselves. 
d. Section 7 looks at the requirements for the valuation of immovable and movable property 
collateral (excluding financial collateral) at the point of origination of credit facilities as well 
as throughout the life cycle of the loans, including monitoring and revaluation (i.e. a review 
of the value of the collateral). In this section, the guidelines spell out supervisory 
expectations for independent valuers and conditions that allow advanced statistical models 
to be used by institutions for the valuation, monitoring and revaluation of various forms of 
collateral. 

PDF File: EBA GL 2020 06 Final Report on GL on loan origination and monitoring.pdf
Page 9:
FINAL REPORT – GUIDELINES ON LOAN ORIGINATION AND MONITORING 
 
 
9 
e. Section 8 of the guidelines focuses on supervisory requirements for the ongoing monitoring 
of credit risk and credit exposures, including regular credit reviews of at least medium-sized 
and large enterprises. In this section, the EBA also sets out supervisory expectations for the 
management information systems to be used for monitoring and the framework of early 
warning indicators/watch lists, thus building the link between the ongoing monitoring and 
early detection of loans with deteriorating credit quality that are also covered in the EBA 
Guidelines on management of non-performing and forborne exposures. 
7. The guidelines are supported by three annexes presenting a set of considerations for credit-
granting criteria (Annex 1), information and data needs for the purposes of creditworthiness 
assessment (Annex 2), and metrics that can be used in credit granting and monitoring 
(Annex 3). 
Interaction between prudential and consumer protection 
frameworks 
8. Sound lending practices employed by institutions for effective assessment of a borrowers’ 
creditworthiness at the point of loan origination are important from both a prudential point of 
view and a consumer protection perspective. Failure to complete an accurate and thorough 
creditworthiness assessment may have negative consequences for institutions and borrowers, 
and affect overall financial stability, as borrowers may not be able to meet their contractual 
commitments under the loan agreements. As a result, the level of non-performing exposures 
in the markets may increase. The EBA statutory objectives include both prudential and financial 
stability as well as consumer protection. To this end, it is important that the guidelines reflect 
these objectives and address the issues of loan origination and creditworthiness assessments, 
from both a prudential and a consumer protection angle, as indicated in the Council’s Action 
Plan. 
9. The creditor’s obligation, prior to the conclusion of the agreement, to assess a borrower’s 
creditworthiness is intended to protect consumers against the risks of over-indebtedness and 
bankruptcy, and therefore ensure responsible lending. The consumer protection perspective of 
these guidelines is of particular importance when specifying the requirements for the 
creditworthiness assessment in the context of lending to consumers and the collection of 
information and data for this assessment. The requirements of these guidelines provide further 
details on the creditworthiness assessment of consumers and the verification of consumer 
information, as laid down in Articles 18 and 20 of Directive 2014/17/EU when dealing with 
lending secured by residential immovable property and Article 8 of Directive 2008/48/EC when 
dealing with unsecured consumer lending. 
10. The EBA has previously issued guidelines specifying creditworthiness assessment for credit 
agreements with consumers in respect of credit agreements that fall under the scope of 

PDF File: EBA GL 2020 06 Final Report on GL on loan origination and monitoring.pdf
Page 10:
FINAL REPORT – GUIDELINES ON LOAN ORIGINATION AND MONITORING 
 
 
10 
Article 3 of Directive 2014/17/EU: EBA Guidelines on creditworthiness assessment9. Given the 
dual focus of the Guidelines on loan origination and monitoring, the EBA decided to fully 
incorporate the EBA Guidelines on creditworthiness assessment into the new guidelines and 
repeal them, with effect from the date of application of these guidelines.  
11. Incorporating consumer protection aspects into these guidelines and integrating (and 
repealing) the Guidelines on creditworthiness assessment under the MCD ensure that there is 
a comprehensive set of guidelines covering creditworthiness assessment from prudential and 
consumer protection angles, across different types of institutions, asset classes and loan 
products. This is of particular importance for institutions subject to the CRD, the MCD and the 
CCD (e.g. credit institutions offering loans falling within the scope of the MCD or consumer 
loans), which will need to implement only one set of guidelines on creditworthiness 
assessment. 
12. These guidelines take into account the EBA’s scope of action, which has been amended through 
a review of the ESA Founding Regulations. The review brings Directive 2008/48/EC on 
consumer credits (the CCD) into the EBA’s scope of action. The new EBA scope of action is 
applicable as of 1 January 2020, which means that the new scope is applicable before the 
application date of these guidelines. 
13. While taking into account the protection of consumers’ interests, notably with regard to 
creditworthiness assessment, these guidelines go further, as they require institutions to also 
take account of those interests in the credit risk policies and procedures, credit-granting criteria 
and the design of the credit products that are offered to consumers. 
Proportionality and implementation 
14. The implementation of these guidelines is subject to the principle of proportionality, and the 
proportionality principle is interpreted and applied differently for various sections of the 
guidelines. First, for the implementation of the requirements related to internal governance, 
risk management and control, institutions and competent authorities should consider a 
proportionality principle that is based on, inter alia, the size, nature and complexity of the 
institutions and other criteria set out for the purposes of the principle of proportionality, 
defined in the EBA Guidelines on internal governance. 
15. Second, when implementing the requirements for the creditworthiness assessment, collateral 
valuation and credit risk monitoring, competent authorities and institutions, instead of the size 
and complexity of institutions, should consider the type, size and complexity of the credit 
facilities being originated or monitored, because these are the main drivers that could give rise 
to a disproportionate application of the guidelines. Furthermore, the proportionality in the 
collateral valuation is also driven by the size, nature and complexity of the collateral and the 
relationship between the loan and collateral, whereas the degree of sophistication of the 
                                                                                                              
9 EBA/GL/2015/11. 

PDF File: EBA GL 2020 06 Final Report on GL on loan origination and monitoring.pdf
Page 11:
FINAL REPORT – GUIDELINES ON LOAN ORIGINATION AND MONITORING 
 
 
11 
monitoring framework and intensity of the actual monitoring will also be driven by the type, 
size and risk profile of the borrower. 
16. The above differentiation in the application of proportionality aims to ensure that, while even 
smaller and less complex institutions have a robust and effective credit-granting process, loan 
origination and monitoring criteria are proportionate to the type, size, complexity and risk 
profile of the loans that the institutions are originating or credit facilities that they are 
monitoring. 
17. However, under the MCD and the CCD, the concept of proportionality and appropriateness 
applies in a general way, and not only in relation to size a loan has for the institution or creditor. 
This is because the main objective of these directives is founded on consumer protection. 
Building on that, and in order to ensure the full effect of these guidelines with regard to 
consumer protection, these guidelines also provide that the proportionate application to the 
size of loan, as set out above, should not result in any impairment of consumer protection, as 
envisaged in the MCD and the CCD. 
18. These guidelines apply from 30 June 2021, meaning that (1) the competent authorities should 
implement these guidelines by incorporating them into their supervisory processes and 
procedures, and (2) institutions should implement them in their business practices by 30 June 
2021. The guidelines also envisage specific phase-in requirements for addressing data gaps in 
the monitoring of already existing credit facilities up until 30 June 2024. 
19. It should be noted that the requirements for loan origination in Section 5 of these guidelines 
apply also to loans and advances that already exist on the application date if their terms and 
conditions have been changed after the application date, provided that the changes follow a 
specific credit decision approval, and if their implementation requires a new loan agreement 
with the borrower or an addendum to the existing agreement. 
 
 
 

PDF File: EBA GL 2020 06 Final Report on GL on loan origination and monitoring.pdf
Page 12:
FINAL REPORT – GUIDELINES ON LOAN ORIGINATION AND MONITORING 
 
 
12 
Guidelines 
 
EBA/GL/2020/06 
29 May 2020 
 
 
Guidelines  
on loan origination and monitoring 
 
 

PDF File: EBA GL 2020 06 Final Report on GL on loan origination and monitoring.pdf
Page 13:
FINAL REPORT – GUIDELINES ON LOAN ORIGINATION AND MONITORING 
13 
1. Compliance and reporting
obligations
Status of these guidelines 
1.
This document contains guidelines issued pursuant to Article 16 of Regulation (EU)
No 1093/201010. In accordance with Article 16(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010, competent
authorities and financial institutions must make every effort to comply with the guidelines.
2.
The guidelines set the European Banking Authority’s (EBA’s) view of appropriate supervisory
practices within the European System of Financial Supervision or of how Union law should be
applied in a particular area. Competent authorities, as defined in Article 4(2) of Regulation (EU)
No 1093/2010, to whom guidelines apply should comply by incorporating them into their
practices as appropriate (e.g. by amending their legal framework or their supervisory
processes), including when guidelines are directed primarily at institutions.
Reporting requirements 
3.
According to Article 16(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010, competent authorities must notify 
the EBA whether they comply or intend to comply with these guidelines, or otherwise with 
reasons for non-compliance, by (. In the absence of any notification by this deadline, 
competent authorities will be considered by the EBA to be non-compliant. 
Notifications should be sent by submitting the form available on the EBA website to 
compliance@eba.europa.eu, with the reference ‘EBA/GL/2020/06’. Notifications should be 
submitted by persons with appropriate authority to report compliance on behalf of their 
competent authorities. Any change in the status of compliance must also be reported to the 
EBA.
4.
Notifications will be published on the EBA website, in line with Article 16(3) of Regulation (EU) 
No 1093/2010. 
10 Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 24 November 2010 establishing a 
European Supervisory Authority (European Banking Authority), amending Decision No 716/2009/EC and repealing 
Commission Decision 2009/78/EC, (OJ L 331, 15.12.2010, p. 12). 

PDF File: EBA GL 2020 06 Final Report on GL on loan origination and monitoring.pdf
Page 14:
FINAL REPORT – GUIDELINES ON LOAN ORIGINATION AND MONITORING 
 
 
14 
2. Subject matter, scope and definitions 
Subject matter 
5. These guidelines specify the internal governance arrangements, processes and mechanisms, as 
laid down in Article 74(1) of Directive 2013/36/EU11, requirements on credit and counterparty 
risk, as laid down in Article 79 of that directive, and requirements in relation to the 
creditworthiness assessment of the consumer, as laid down in Chapter 6 of 
Directive 2014/17/EU12 and Article 8 of Directive 2008/48/EC13. 
Scope of application 
6. These guidelines apply to institutions, as defined in point 3 of Article 4(1) of Regulation (EU) 
No 575/2013. When the loan falls under the scope of Directive 2014/17/EU (the Mortgage 
Credit Directive, MCD), Section 5 applies to creditors, as defined in Article 4(2) of this directive, 
except for paragraph 93. When the loan falls under the scope of Directive 2008/48/EC (the 
Consumer Credit Directive, CCD), Section 5 applies to creditors, as defined in point (b) of 
Article 3 of that directive, except for paragraphs 93. 
7. These guidelines apply to institutions’ internal governance arrangement and procedures in 
relation to credit-granting processes, and throughout the life cycle of credit facilities. 
Furthermore, these guidelines apply to the risk management practices, policies, processes and 
procedures for loan origination and monitoring of performing exposures, and their integration 
into the overall management and risk management frameworks. 
8. Sections 4 and 8 apply in relation to all credit risk being taken by institutions, excluding debt 
securities, derivatives and securities financing transactions. 
9. Sections 5 and 6 apply to loans to consumers, micro and small enterprises, and medium-sized 
and large enterprises. Sections 5 and 6 do not apply to loans and advances to credit institutions, 
investment firms, financial institutions, insurance and reinsurance undertakings, and central 
banks, and loans and advances to sovereigns, including central governments, regional and local 
authorities, and public sector entities. Sections 5 and 6 do not apply to forborne and non-
performing loans. 
                                                                                                              
11 Directive 2013/36/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 June 2013 on access to the activity of credit 
institutions and the prudential supervision of credit institutions and investment firms, amending Directive 2002/87/EC 
and repealing Directives 2006/48/EC and 2006/49/EC, (OJ L 176, 27.6.2013, p. 338-436). 
12 Directive 2014/17/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 4 February 2014 on credit agreements for 
consumers relating to residential immovable property and amending Directives 2008/48/EC and 2013/36/EU and 
Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010, (OJ L 60, 28.2.2014, p. 34-85). 
13 Directive 2008/48/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 April 2008 on credit agreements for 
consumers and repealing Council Directive 87/102/EEC, (OJ L 133, 23.4.2008, p. 66-92). 

PDF File: EBA GL 2020 06 Final Report on GL on loan origination and monitoring.pdf
Page 15:
FINAL REPORT – GUIDELINES ON LOAN ORIGINATION AND MONITORING 
 
 
15 
10. Competent authorities may consider applying Sections 6 and 7 to creditors that fall within the 
scope of Directive 2014/17/EU and Directive 2008/48/EU and are not credit institutions. 
11. When, in the context of real estate lending, a property has a mixed use, such as residential and 
commercial real estate (CRE), the property should be either classified in line with its dominant 
use or considered as separate properties, based on the area dedicated to each use. If such an 
assessment cannot be objectively performed (e.g. certain parts of the property may be available 
for common use by everybody), the property could be classified in line with its dominant use. 
12. Competent authorities should ensure that institutions apply these guidelines on individual, sub-
consolidated and consolidated bases, in accordance with Article 109 of Directive 2013/36/EU, 
unless competent authorities make use of the derogations, as defined in Article 21 and 
Article 109 of Directive 2013/36/EU. Competent authorities should also ensure that the 
institutions apply these guidelines at sub-consolidated and individual levels, in line with the 
consolidated-level group policies and practices, taking into account the characteristics of these 
institutions and their credit portfolios. 
Addressees 
13. These guidelines are addressed to competent authorities, as defined in points (i), (iii), (vi) and 
(vii) of Article 4(2) of Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010, and financial institutions, as defined in 
Article 4(1) of Regulation No 1093/2010. 
Definitions 
14. Unless otherwise specified, terms used and defined in Regulation (EU) No 575/2013, 
Directive 2013/36/EU, Directive 2014/17/EU, Directive 2008/48/EC, the EBA Guidelines on 
internal governance under Directive 2013/36/EU14, the EBA Guidelines on connected clients 
under point 39 of Article 4(1) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 15, the EBA and European 
Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA) Guidelines on the assessment of the suitability of 
members of the management body and key function holder16, the EBA Guidelines on sound 
remuneration policies under Articles 74(3) and 75(2) of Directive 2013/36/EU and disclosures 
under Article 450 of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 17, the EBA Guidelines on remuneration 
policies and practices for sales staff18, the EBA Guidelines on outsourcing arrangements19, the 
EBA Guidelines on institutions’ stress testing20, and the Commission Recommendation of 6 May 
                                                                                                              
14 EBA/GL/2017/11. 
15 EBA/GL/2017/15. 
16 EBA/GL/2017/12. 
17 EBA/GL/2015/22. 
18 EBA/GL/2016/06. 
19 EBA/GL/2019/02. 
20 EBA/GL/2018/04. 

PDF File: EBA GL 2020 06 Final Report on GL on loan origination and monitoring.pdf
Page 16:
FINAL REPORT – GUIDELINES ON LOAN ORIGINATION AND MONITORING 
 
 
16 
2003 concerning the definition of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises21 have the same 
meaning in these guidelines. 
15. In addition, for the purposes of these guidelines, the following definitions apply: 
Credit decision-maker 
means a credit committee or committees and individual staff 
members with delegated credit decision-making powers, as 
set out within the credit decision-making framework 
specified in the institutions’ policies and procedures. 
Commercial real estate 
has the same meaning as under point (4) of paragraph (1) of 
Section 2, 1. Definitions Recommendation ESRB/2016/1422. 
Environmentally sustainable 
lending 
means lending to finance environmentally sustainable 
economic activities. It is part of the wider concept of 
‘sustainable finance’, meaning any financial instrument or 
investment, including equity, debt, guarantee or a risk 
management tool, issued in exchange for the delivery of 
financing activities that meeting criteria for being 
environmentally sustainable. 
Loan 
means loans and advances, as defined in Annex V to 
Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 680/2014. 
Project finance 
means the financing of all activities of micro, small, 
medium-sized and large enterprises (including special 
purpose vehicles established for the project) involved in 
projects in which the financial servicing of credit facilities is 
primarily dependent on the cash flow from sales of the 
project, and all the assets of the project are pledged to the 
institution financing the project. 
Single customer view 
means a single, consistent view of all of a customer’s assets 
and liabilities held at an institution or a creditor on a 
consolidated basis, including information on all financial 
commitments, including their repayment history at the 
institution or the creditor. 
Shipping finance 
means the financing of all activities involved in the building, 
acquisition and operation of ships and offshore 
installations, when the financial servicing of credit facilities 
                                                                                                              
21 Commission Recommendation of 6 May 2003 concerning the definition of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises 
(OJ L 124, 20/05/2003, p. 0036-0041). 
22 Recommendation of the European Systemic Risk Board amending Recommendation ESRB/2016/14 on closing real 
estate data gaps ESRB/2019/3 (OJ C 271, 13.8.2019). 

PDF File: EBA GL 2020 06 Final Report on GL on loan origination and monitoring.pdf
Page 17:
FINAL REPORT – GUIDELINES ON LOAN ORIGINATION AND MONITORING 
 
 
17 
is primarily dependent on the cash flow from operating or 
selling these ships or offshore installations, or when the 
collateral is structured around the ships or offshore 
installations, shipbuilding or various charter arrangements. 
Source of repayment capacity 
means the borrower’s total funds, cash flow and payment 
behaviour considerations, as registered by the credit 
provider at the moment of the loan origination, covering all 
sources of cash inflows (such as income, regular private 
transfers — alimonies, rental income from real estate 
property, income from financial investments, income from 
private businesses or partnerships, income from other 
sources), funds (such as saving accounts, investment 
products) and regular expenses. 
 
Proportionality 
16. In order to ensure a proportionate application of these guidelines, the following criteria should 
be taken into account: 
a. for Section 4, the criteria as set out in Title I of the EBA Guidelines on internal 
governance; 
b. for Section 5, the size, nature and complexity of the credit facility, without prejudice to 
Articles 18 and 20 of Directive 2014/17/EU and Article 8 of Directive 2008/48/EU; 
c. for Section 7, the size, nature and complexity of the credit facility and the collateral;  
d. for Section 8, the size, nature and complexity of the institution; the size, nature, 
complexity of the credit facility; and the type, size and risk profile of the borrower. 
17. In relation to lending to consumers, institutions and creditors should ensure that the 
application of paragraph 16 does not impair the objective of consumer protection, as laid down 
in Directive 2008/48/EU, Directive 2014/17/EU and further specified in these guidelines, and in 
particular in Section 5.1 and Sections 5.2.1, 5.2.2, 5.2.3 and 5.2.4. 
 
 

PDF File: EBA GL 2020 06 Final Report on GL on loan origination and monitoring.pdf
Page 18:
FINAL REPORT – GUIDELINES ON LOAN ORIGINATION AND MONITORING 
 
 
18 
3. Implementation 
Date of application 
18. These guidelines apply from 30 June 2021. 
19. Sections 5 and 6 apply to loans and advances that are originated after 30 June 2021. Section 5 
also applies to loans and advances that already exist on 30 June 2021 if their terms and 
conditions have been changed after 30 June 2022, provided that the changes follow a specific 
credit decision approval, and if their implementation requires a new loan agreement with the 
borrower or an addendum to the existing agreement. 
20. Section 7 applies to any valuation, monitoring and revaluation of immovable property and 
movable property collateral, excluding financial collateral, conducted after 30 June 2021. 
21. Section 8 applies to all credit facilities originated after 30 June 2021. 
Transitional provisions 
22. These specific provisions of the guidelines are subject to the following transitional 
arrangements, though competent authorities may accelerate this transition at their own 
discretion: 
In relation to Section 8, if institutions do not have all the relevant information and data, as 
specified in these guidelines, to be used for the monitoring of existing borrowers or credit 
facilities granted before the application date, institutions should collect missing information 
and data until 30 June 2024, through regular credit review of borrowers, as set out in these 
guidelines. 
Repeal 
23. The following guidelines are repealed, with effect from the date of application of these 
guidelines: 
Guidelines on creditworthiness assessment (EBA/GL/2015/11). 
 
 

PDF File: EBA GL 2020 06 Final Report on GL on loan origination and monitoring.pdf
Page 19:
FINAL REPORT – GUIDELINES ON LOAN ORIGINATION AND MONITORING 
 
 
19 
4. Internal governance for credit 
granting and monitoring 
24. In addition to the provisions set out in the EBA Guidelines on internal governance, institutions 
should apply further conditions in relation to credit granting and monitoring, as set out in this 
section. 
4.1 Credit risk governance and culture 
4.1.1 Responsibilities of the management body 
25. The management body, as referred to in the EBA Guidelines on internal governance, in relation 
to credit granting, should: 
a. approve the institution’s credit risk strategy, within the overall risk strategy, and 
business strategy, to ensure that they are in line with the institution’s risk appetite 
framework (RAF), capital and liquidity planning, and are in line with the internal capital 
adequacy assessment process (ICAAP) and internal liquidity adequacy assessment 
process (ILAAP), when relevant; 
b. set the credit risk appetite within the overall RAF, including credit-granting standards, 
qualitative statements, quantitative metrics and limits, and escalation thresholds, 
without business performance biases; 
c. approve the framework for the credit approval process, including, when relevant, the 
internal structures for credit granting and monitoring, and defining delegated decision-
making authorities; 
d. ensure an effective oversight of credit risk quality, in particular at the point of credit 
granting, and provisioning; 
e. ensure adequate credit approval, monitoring and control processes, for the purposes 
of effective credit risk management; 
f. ensure that all staff involved in credit risk taking, and the managing, monitoring and 
controlling of credit risk, are adequately skilled, resourced and experienced; 
g. set, approve and oversee the implementation of the institution’s risk culture, core 
values and expectations regarding credit risk; 

PDF File: EBA GL 2020 06 Final Report on GL on loan origination and monitoring.pdf
Page 20:
FINAL REPORT – GUIDELINES ON LOAN ORIGINATION AND MONITORING 
 
 
20 
h. ensure that the remuneration framework, including any relevant performance targets, 
and the performance assessment framework for credit decision-makers who are 
identified staff remain aligned with the credit risk and credit risk appetite. 
4.1.2 Credit risk culture 
26. Institutions should develop a credit risk culture as part of the overall risk culture through 
policies, communication and staff training, in accordance with the EBA Guidelines on internal 
governance. 
27. The credit risk culture should include an adequate ‘tone from the top’ and ensure that credit is 
granted to borrowers who, to the institution’s best knowledge at the time of granting the 
credit, will be able to fulfil the terms and conditions of the credit agreement, and is secured, 
when relevant, by sufficient and appropriate collateral, where relevant, and considering the 
impact on the institution’s capital position and profitability, and sustainability, and related 
environmental, social and governance (ESG) factors. 
28. Institutions should ensure that a credit risk culture is implemented effectively across all levels 
of the institution, and that all members of staff involved in the credit risk-taking, credit risk 
management and monitoring processes are fully aware of it and they will be held accountable 
for their actions. 
29. Institutions should adopt policies and processes to monitor adherence of all staff members 
involved in credit-granting, monitoring and control processes to the institution’s credit risk 
culture (e.g. by means of self-assessments carried out by staff members). In situations in which 
there are noted deficiencies in the credit culture, evidenced either via an institution’s self-
assessment or via supervisory actions, the institution should take well-defined, outcome-driven 
and timely actions to remediate these deficiencies. The credit risk strategy, credit policies and 
procedures should be tailored to mitigate any potential negative effects arising from a poor 
credit culture. 
4.2 Credit risk appetite, strategy and credit risk limits 
30. The credit risk appetite, credit risk strategy and the overall credit risk policy should be aligned 
with the institution’s overall RAF. The institution’s credit risk appetite should specify the scope 
and focus of the credit risk of the institution, the composition of the credit portfolio, including 
its concentration, and diversification objectives in relation to business lines, geographies, 
economic sectors and products. 
31. The credit risk appetite should be implemented with the support of appropriate credit risk 
metrics and limits. These metrics and limits should cover key aspects of the credit risk appetite, 
as well as client segments, currency, collateral types and credit risk mitigation instruments. 
When relevant, credit metrics should be a combination of backward-looking and forward-

PDF File: EBA GL 2020 06 Final Report on GL on loan origination and monitoring.pdf
Page 21:
FINAL REPORT – GUIDELINES ON LOAN ORIGINATION AND MONITORING 
 
 
21 
looking indicators and should be tailored to the business model and complexity of the 
institution. 
32. Institutions should ensure that the credit risk appetite and associated metrics and limits are 
appropriately cascaded down within the institution, including all relevant group entities and 
business lines and units bearing credit risk. 
33. For the purposes of managing concentration risk, institutions should set quantitative internal 
credit risk limits for their aggregate credit risk, as well as portfolios with shared credit risk 
characteristics, sub-portfolios and individual borrowers. In cases of group entities and 
connected clients, the limits should also account for the consolidated and sub-consolidated 
position and the position of the individual entities at the consolidated and sub-consolidated 
levels. 
4.3 Credit risk policies and procedures 
34. Institutions should set out, in their credit risk policies and procedures, the criteria for 
identifying, assessing, approving, monitoring, reporting and mitigating credit risk, and the 
criteria for measuring allowances for both accounting and capital adequacy purposes. 
Institutions should document the framework and update it regularly. 
35. The objective followed in credit risk policies and procedures should be to promote a proactive 
approach to monitoring credit quality, identifying deteriorating credit early and managing the 
overall credit quality and associated risk profile of the portfolio, including through new credit-
granting activities. 
36. Credit risk policies and procedures should cover all lending activities, asset classes, client 
segments, products and specific credit facilities, credit risk management practices, and 
associated responsibilities and controls. 
37. Credit risk policies and procedures should include specific lending policies and procedures, with 
sufficient granularity to capture the specific business lines of the institution, for different 
sectors, in line with their varying complexities and sizes, and risks of different market segments 
related to the credit facility. 
38. Credit risk policies and procedures should specify: 
a. policies and procedures and rules for the approval of credit granting and decision-
making, including appropriate authorisation levels set in accordance with the credit risk 
appetite and limits; 
b. credit-granting criteria, taking into account the items referred to in Annex 1; 
c. requirements for the handling of information and data needed for the creditworthiness 
assessment, as set out in Section 5.1; 

PDF File: EBA GL 2020 06 Final Report on GL on loan origination and monitoring.pdf
Page 22:
FINAL REPORT – GUIDELINES ON LOAN ORIGINATION AND MONITORING 
 
 
22 
d. requirements for the creditworthiness assessment, including a sensitivity analysis, as 
referred to in Section 5.2; 
e. requirements for exposure aggregation and credit risk limits and the management of 
credit risk concentrations; 
f. requirements and procedures regarding the acceptance and use of collateral and credit 
risk mitigation measures, to determine their effectiveness in minimising the inherent 
risk of a credit facility — such requirements and procedures should be asset class-
specific and product type-specific and should duly consider the type, size and 
complexity of the credit facilities being granted; 
g. conditions for the application of automated decision-making in the credit-granting 
process, including identifying products, segments and limits for which automated 
decision-making is allowed; 
h. a risk-based approach, addressing possible deviations from standard credit policies and 
procedures and credit-granting criteria, including: 
i. conditions defining the approval process for deviations and exceptions and the 
specific documentation requirements, including the audit trail; 
ii. criteria for rejections and criteria for the escalation of deviations/exceptions to 
higher levels of the decision-making authority (including overrides, overrules, 
exposures possibly approved as an exception to general lending standards and 
other non-standard business under a special process with different approval 
authorities); 
iii. requirements for the monitoring of circumstances and conditions for an 
exceptional credit-granting decision, including requirements for their review 
by the relevant functions during the regular review of the application and 
compliance with policies and limits; 
i. 
requirements relating to what is to be documented and recorded as part of the credit-
granting process, including for sampling and audit purposes — this should include, at a 
minimum, the requirements for the completion of credit applications, the qualitative 
and quantitative rationale/analysis, and all supportive documentation that served as a 
basis for approving or declining the credit facility; 
j. 
requirements for monitoring credit-granting activities — the internal control 
framework should ensure that it covers all phases after the granting of credit; 
k. where applicable, the criteria as set out in Sections 4.3.2, 4.3.3, 4.3.4, 4.3.5 and 4.3.6;  
l. 
criteria as set out in Section 4.3.1 and 4.3.7. 

PDF File: EBA GL 2020 06 Final Report on GL on loan origination and monitoring.pdf
Page 23:
FINAL REPORT – GUIDELINES ON LOAN ORIGINATION AND MONITORING 
 
 
23 
39. Within their credit risk policies and procedures and building on the credit risk strategy, 
institutions should also take into account principles of responsible lending. In particular: 
a. they should consider the specific situation of a borrower, such as the fair treatment of 
borrowers that are in economic difficulties; 
b. they should design credit products that are offered to consumers in a responsible way. 
40. For the credit products that are offered to consumers, institutions should ensure that the 
credit-granting criteria are not inducing undue hardship and over-indebtedness for the 
borrowers and their households. 
41. In their credit risk policies and procedures dealing with credit decision-making as referred to in 
paragraph 38(a) and creditworthiness assessments as referred to in paragraph 38(d), 
institutions should also specify the use of any automated models in the creditworthiness 
assessment and credit decision-making processes in a way that is appropriate to the size, nature 
and complexity of the credit facility and the types of borrowers. In particular, institutions should 
set out appropriate governance arrangements for the design and use of such models and the 
management of the associated model risk, taking into account the criteria set out in 
Section 4.3.4, and for model risk-related aspects of the EBA Guidelines on the supervisory 
review and evaluation process23. 
42. Institutions should ensure that the credit risk policies and procedures are designed to minimise 
the risk of internal or external fraud in the credit-granting process. Institutions should have 
adequate processes in place to monitor any suspicious or fraudulent behaviour. 
43. Institutions should review the credit risk policies and procedures on a regular basis, and for this 
purpose should clearly identify the functions and staff members tasked with maintaining 
specific policies and procedures to date and their roles and responsibilities in this regard. 
4.3.1 Anti-money laundering and counter-terrorist financing policies and procedures 
44. Institutions should also specify in their policies how they identify, assess and manage the 
money laundering and terrorist financing (ML/TF) risks to which they are exposed as a result of 
their credit-granting activities24. In particular, institutions should: 
a. at the level of their business, identify, assess and manage the ML/TF risk associated 
with the type of customers they serve, the lending products they provide, the 
geographies to which they are exposed and the distribution channels they use; 
                                                                                                              
23 EBA/GL/2014/13. 
24 Directive (EU) 2015/849 requires institutions to put in place and maintain effective policies and procedures to prevent 
ML/TF and to detect and deter it should it occur. Institutions should also refer to the ESAs’ Joint Risk Factors Guidelines 
(JC 2017 37) for further information on these points. 

PDF File: EBA GL 2020 06 Final Report on GL on loan origination and monitoring.pdf
Page 24:
FINAL REPORT – GUIDELINES ON LOAN ORIGINATION AND MONITORING 
 
 
24 
b. at the level of the individual relationship, identify, assess and manage the ML/TF risk 
associated with this relationship — as part of this, institutions should: 
i. consider the purpose of the credit; 
ii. consider the extent to which the association of a natural person or legal person 
that is neither the borrower nor the institution with the credit facility gives rise 
to ML/TF risk; 
iii. in particular, in situations in which the ML/TF risk associated with the individual 
relationship is established, institutions should take risk-sensitive measures to 
understand if the funds used to repay the credit, including cash or equivalents 
provided as collateral, are from legitimate sources. When considering the 
legitimacy of the source of funds, institutions should have regard to the activity 
that generated the funds and whether this information is credible and 
consistent with the institution’s knowledge of the customer and the customer’s 
professional activity. 
45. Institutions should have internal processes to ensure that the information obtained for the 
purposes of creditworthiness assessment, such as the information specified in Section 5.1 and 
Annex 2 of these guidelines, also informs their anti-money laundering and countering  financing 
of terrorism (AML/CFT) processes. 
46. Institutions should have policies and procedures in place to ensure that the disbursement of 
loans is made in line with the credit decision and the loan agreement. They should also ensure 
that there are appropriate checks in place to identify, assess and manage ML/TF risks, and that 
relevant records are kept, in line with institutions’ wider AML/CFT obligations under Directive 
(EU) 2015/849. 
4.3.2 Leveraged transactions 
47. As part of their policies and procedures, institutions should have in place an overarching 
definition of leveraged transactions that takes into consideration the level of leverage of the 
borrower and the purpose of the transaction. This definition should encompass all business 
lines and units bearing credit risk. 
48. The scope and implementation of the definition of a leveraged transaction by an institution 
should be regularly reviewed to ensure that no undue exclusion has been made. 
49. Institutions should define their appetite and strategy for leveraged transactions in a way that 
encompasses all relevant business units involved in such operations. Institutions should define 
which types of leveraged transactions they are prepared to enter into, as well as acceptable 
values for parameters, such as rating note, probability of default, level of collateralisation and 
leverage levels, including at sector level, when relevant. 

PDF File: EBA GL 2020 06 Final Report on GL on loan origination and monitoring.pdf
Page 25:
FINAL REPORT – GUIDELINES ON LOAN ORIGINATION AND MONITORING 
 
 
25 
50. Institutions should define their risk appetite for syndicating leveraged transactions and derive 
a comprehensive limit framework, including dedicated underwriting limits and a granular set 
of sub-limits, detailing both maximum limits and the nature of transactions that the institution 
is prepared to participate in. 
51. Institutions should establish a sound governance structure for leveraged transactions, enabling 
a comprehensive and consistent oversight of all leveraged transactions originated, syndicated 
or purchased by them, including, when relevant, ‘best efforts’ deals and ‘club deals’, as well as 
standard bilateral loans to micro, small, medium-sized and large enterprises. 
52. Institutions should ensure that all leveraged transactions are adequately reviewed, in line with 
institutions’ risk appetite, strategies and policies, and approved by relevant credit decision-
makers. For transactions including syndication and underwriting risks, there should be specific 
approval requirements and processes in place. 
4.3.3 Technology-enabled innovation for credit granting 
53. When using technology-enabled innovation for credit-granting purposes, institutions should do 
the following: 
a. Adequately capture, in their risk management and control frameworks, the inherent 
risks associated with the technology-enabled innovation in use. This should be 
commensurate with the business model, credit risk exposure, complexity of the 
methods and the extent of the use of technology-enabled innovation. 
b. Ensure that the management body has a sufficient understanding of the use of 
technology-enabled innovation, its limitation and the impact it has on credit-granting 
procedures. 
c. Understand the underlying models used, including their capabilities, assumptions and 
limitations, along with ensuring their traceability, auditability, and robustness and 
resilience. 
d. Ensure that the models are fit for purpose, taking into account the identified task and 
other criteria, such as its performance and use. If explanations are required during the 
models’ use, then consideration should be given to developing an interpretable model. 
e. Understand the quality of data and inputs to the model and detect and prevent bias in 
the credit decision-making process, ensuring that appropriate safeguards are in place 
to provide confidentiality, integrity and availability of information and systems. 
f. Ensure the performance of the model, including the validity and quality of its outputs, 
is continuously monitored and appropriate remediation measures are taken in a timely 
manner in the case of detected issues (e.g. worsening or deviating from expected 
behaviour). 

PDF File: EBA GL 2020 06 Final Report on GL on loan origination and monitoring.pdf
Page 26:
FINAL REPORT – GUIDELINES ON LOAN ORIGINATION AND MONITORING 
 
 
26 
4.3.4 Models for creditworthiness assessment and credit decision-making 
54. When using automated models for creditworthiness assessment and credit decision-making, 
institutions should understand the models used, and their methodology, input data, 
assumptions, limitations and outputs, and should have in place: 
a. internal policies and procedures detecting and preventing bias and ensuring the quality 
of the input data; 
b. measures to ensure the traceability, auditability, and robustness and resilience of the 
inputs and outputs; 
c. internal policies and procedures ensuring that the quality of the model output is 
regularly assessed, using measures appropriate to the model’s use, including 
backtesting the performance of the model; 
d. control mechanisms, model overrides and escalation procedures within the regular 
credit decision-making framework, including qualitative approaches, qualitative risk 
assessment tools (including expert judgement and critical analysis) and quantitative 
limits. 
55. Institutions should have adequate model documentation that covers: 
a. methodology, assumptions and data inputs, and an approach to detecting and 
preventing bias and ensuring the quality of input data; 
b. the use of model outputs in the decision-making process and the monitoring of these 
automated decisions on the overall quality of the portfolio or products in which these 
models are used. 
4.3.5 Environmental, social and governance factors 
56. Institutions should incorporate ESG factors and associated risks in their credit risk appetite and 
risk management policies, credit risk policies and procedures, adopting a holistic approach. 
57. Institutions should take into account the risks associated with ESG factors on the financial 
conditions of borrowers, and in particular the potential impact of environmental factors and 
climate change, in their credit risk appetite, policies and procedures. The risks of climate change 
for the financial performance of borrowers can primarily materialise as physical risks, such as 
risks to the borrower that arise from the physical effects of climate change, including liability 
risks for contributing to climate change, or transition risks, e.g. risks to the borrower that arise 
from the transition to a low-carbon and climate-resilient economy. In addition, other risks can 
occur, such as changes in market and consumer preferences and legal risks that may affect the 
performance of underlying assets. 
 

PDF File: EBA GL 2020 06 Final Report on GL on loan origination and monitoring.pdf
Page 27:
FINAL REPORT – GUIDELINES ON LOAN ORIGINATION AND MONITORING 
 
 
27 
4.3.6 Environmentally sustainable lending 
58. Institutions that originate or plan to originate environmentally sustainable credit facilities 
should develop, as part of their credit risk policies and procedures, specific details of their 
environmentally sustainable lending policies and procedures, covering the granting and 
monitoring of such credit facilities. These policies and procedures should, in particular: 
a. Provide a list of the projects and activities, as well as the criteria, that the institution 
considers eligible for environmentally sustainable lending or a reference to relevant 
existing standards on environmentally sustainable lending that define what type of 
lending is considered to be environmentally sustainable;. 
b. Specify the process by which the institutions evaluating that the proceeds of the 
environmentally sustainable credit facilities they have originated are used for 
environmentally sustainable activities. In cases of lending to enterprises, the process 
should include: 
i. collecting information about the climate-related and environmental or 
otherwise sustainable business objectives of the borrowers; 
ii. assessing the conformity of the borrowers’ funding projects with the qualifying 
environmentally sustainable projects or activities and related criteria; 
iii. ensuring that the borrowers have the willingness and capacity to appropriately 
monitor and report the allocation of the proceeds towards the environmentally 
sustainable projects or activities;  
iv. monitoring, on a regular basis, that the proceeds are allocated properly (which 
may consist of requesting that borrowers provide updated information on the 
use of the proceeds until the relevant credit facility is repaid). 
59. Institutions should position their environmentally sustainable lending policies and procedures 
within the context of their overarching objectives, strategy and policy related to sustainable 
finance. In particular, institutions should set up qualitative and, when relevant, quantitative 
targets to support the development and the integrity of their environmentally sustainable 
lending activity, and to assess the extent to which this development is in line with or is 
contributing to their overall climate-related and environmentally sustainable objectives. 
4.3.7 Data infrastructure 
60. Institutions should have appropriate data infrastructure as well as relevant policies and 
procedures to support the credit-granting process and for the purposes of credit risk 
management and monitoring throughout the life cycle of the credit facilities (e.g. loan 
origination and creditworthiness assessment, risk assessment, credit review and monitoring). 
The data infrastructure should ensure the continuity, integrity and security of information on 

PDF File: EBA GL 2020 06 Final Report on GL on loan origination and monitoring.pdf
Page 28:
FINAL REPORT – GUIDELINES ON LOAN ORIGINATION AND MONITORING 
 
 
28 
the exposure, borrower and collateral, from the point of origination and throughout the life 
cycle of the credit facility. 
61. The data infrastructure should be detailed and sufficiently granular to capture specific loan-by-
loan information, in particular actual credit-granting criteria applied at the point of origination, 
allowing data regarding the borrower to be linked with data regarding collateral, to support the 
effective monitoring of credit risk (see Section 8) and enable effective audit trailing, operational 
and credit performance and efficiency measurement, as well as the tracking of policy 
deviations, exceptions and overrides (including credit/transaction rating or scoring overrides). 
62. For the purposes of designing and maintaining this data infrastructure, institutions should 
consider using the relevant data fields from the EBA’s NPL transaction templates25. 
4.4 Credit decision-making 
63. Institutions should establish a clear and well-documented credit decision-making framework 
that should set out a clear and sound structure for the credit decision-making responsibilities 
within an institution, including a description of the hierarchy of the credit decision-makers and 
their allocation within the institution’s organisational and business structure and their 
reporting lines. 
64. The structure of credit decision-makers should be in line with and integrated into credit risk 
appetite, policies and limits and reflect the business model of the institutions. The allocation of 
credit decision-makers to the organisational and business structure should reflect the cascading 
credit risk appetite and limits within an organisation and be based on objective criteria, 
including risk indicators. 
65. The credit decision-making framework should clearly articulate the decision-making powers 
and limitations of each decision-maker and of any automated models for credit decision-
making purposes, in line with the criteria for such models set out in Section 4.3.4. These powers 
and limitations should account for the characteristics of the credit portfolio, including its 
concentration and diversification objectives, in relation to business lines, geographies, 
economic sectors and products, as well as credit limits and maximum exposures. Where 
relevant, institutions should set time limits for the delegated powers or the size of delegated 
approvals. 
66. When delegating credit decision-making powers, including limits, to members of staff, 
institutions should consider the specificities of the credit facilities subject to this individual 
decision-making, including their size and complexity, and the types and risk profiles of 
borrowers. Institutions should also ensure that these staff members are adequately trained and 
hold relevant expertise and seniority in relation to the specific authority delegated to them. 
                                                                                                              
25 https://eba.europa.eu/risk-analysis-and-data/eba-work-on-npls 

PDF File: EBA GL 2020 06 Final Report on GL on loan origination and monitoring.pdf
Page 29:
FINAL REPORT – GUIDELINES ON LOAN ORIGINATION AND MONITORING 
 
 
29 
67. The credit decision-making framework should account for the risk perspective in the decision-
making. It should also take into account the specificities of credit products and borrowers, 
including the type of product, the size of credit facility or limit, and the risk profile of the 
borrower. 
68. The framework should also specify the working modalities of the credit committees and the 
roles of their members, including, when applicable, aspects such as voting procedures 
(unanimity or simple majority of votes). 
69. If the institutions grant specific veto rights in relation to positive credit decisions to the head of 
the risk management function, institutions should consider granting such veto rights to 
additional staff members within the risk management function for specific credit decisions, to 
ensure that such a veto can be exercised, if appropriate, at all levels of the credit decision-
making framework below the management body. Institutions should specify the scope of these 
veto rights, the escalation or appeal procedures, and how the management body will be 
involved. 
4.4.1 Objectivity and impartiality in credit decision-making 
70. Institutions should ensure that decisions taken by credit decision-makers are impartial and 
objective and not adversely affected by any conflict of interest, in line with the EBA Guidelines 
on internal governance. More specifically, for the purposes of these guidelines, institutions 
should ensure that any individual involved in credit decision-making, such as members of staff 
and members of the management body, should not take part in credit decisions if any of the 
following occurs: 
a. any individual involved in credit decision-making has a personal or professional 
relationship (outside the professional relationship when representing the institution) 
with the borrower; 
b. any individual involved in credit decision-making has an economic or any other interest, 
including direct or indirect, actual or potential, financial or non-financial, associated 
with the borrower; 
c. any individual involved in credit decision-making has undue political influence on or a 
political relationship with the borrower. 
71. Notwithstanding the governance structures implemented in institutions to operationalise the 
credit decision-making framework, institutions should have policies, procedures and 
organisational controls in place that guarantee and ensure objectivity and impartiality in the 
credit decision-making process. These policies, procedures and organisational controls, 
including any mitigating measures, should be clearly defined and understood, and should 
address any potential conflicts of interest. Institutions should ensure effective oversight of the 
decisions taken by credit decision-makers, including credit granting, to ensure their objectivity 
and impartiality. 

PDF File: EBA GL 2020 06 Final Report on GL on loan origination and monitoring.pdf
Page 30:
FINAL REPORT – GUIDELINES ON LOAN ORIGINATION AND MONITORING 
 
 
30 
4.5 Credit risk management and internal control frameworks 
72. In accordance with the EBA Guidelines on internal governance, institutions should implement 
a robust and comprehensive internal control framework, including credit risk management, 
respecting inter alia the principles of accountability, segregation and independence of functions 
and responsibilities, challenge and assurance of outcomes. 
73. Risk management and internal controls for credit risk should be integrated into the institution’s 
overall risk management and internal control frameworks, as well as into the organisational 
and decision-making structure. Institutions should ensure that the internal control framework, 
including credit risk management, supports robust and appropriate credit risk taking, analysis, 
and monitoring throughout the life cycle of a credit facility, including the design and 
development of the specific product, sales and administration. 
74. Institutions should establish regular and transparent reporting mechanisms so that the 
management body, its risk committee, if established, and all relevant units or functions are 
provided with reports in a timely, accurate and concise manner and can take informed and 
effective actions within their respective mandates, to ensure the identification, measurement 
or assessment, monitoring and management of credit risk (see also Section 8). 
75. Institutions should define, in a clear and transparent manner, the allocation of responsibilities 
and authority within the organisation, including within and between business lines, units and 
functions, including risk management. To this end, institutions should clearly define functions 
responsible for performing the various tasks related to credit risk taking and the credit decision-
making process, specified in a way that does not lead to a conflict of interest and ensures the 
effective management of credit risk. 
76. The business lines and units originating the credit risk should be primarily responsible for 
managing the credit risk generated by their activities throughout the lifetime of the credit. 
These business lines and units should have adequate internal controls in place to ensure 
adherence with internal policies and relevant external requirements. 
77. The institutions should have a risk management function, in line with the EBA Guidelines on 
internal governance, that is responsible for ensuring the proper controls of credit risk. The risk 
management function should be independent of the business-originating units. 
78. For the purposes of paragraph 75, institutions should consider the following areas/tasks: 
a. developing and maintaining credit-granting and monitoring processes and procedures; 
b. defining and developing processes, mechanisms and methodologies for credit risk 
appetite, credit risk strategy and credit risk policies, including the overall cascading-
down process for policies and procedures, and business strategy; 

PDF File: EBA GL 2020 06 Final Report on GL on loan origination and monitoring.pdf
Page 31:
FINAL REPORT – GUIDELINES ON LOAN ORIGINATION AND MONITORING 
 
 
31 
c. designing and implementing an appropriate credit decision-making framework in 
accordance with these guidelines; 
d. designing, defining and performing credit risk monitoring and reporting, including early 
warning systems, credit portfolio and aggregate risk monitoring, including in relation 
to ICAAP and any applicable regulatory metrics, e.g. large exposures rules; 
e. performing an assessment of creditworthiness and a credit risk analysis for scoring or 
rating purposes; 
f. providing an independent/second opinion on the creditworthiness assessment and 
credit risk analysis for the purposes of credit decision-making, specifying in which 
circumstances, considering the specificities of the credit facility, its size and the risk 
profile of the borrower, this independent/second opinion is relevant; 
g. assessing the appropriateness of allowances in accordance with the relevant 
accounting framework; 
h. developing new credit products, also considering the requirements for the new product 
approval process, and ongoing monitoring of the appropriateness of credit products; 
i. 
managing early arrears and non-performing exposures, and granting and monitoring 
forbearance measures, in line with the provisions of the EBA Guidelines on 
management of non-performing and forborne exposures26 and the EBA Guidelines on 
arrears and foreclosure under Directive 2014/17/EU27, and the institution’s internal 
policies – in relation to lending to consumers, such tasks may also include liaising with 
independent debt-counselling and debt advice services when relevant; 
j. 
performing stress tests on the aggregate credit portfolio as well as on relevant sub-
portfolios and geographical segments; 
k. monitoring individual exposures through regular credit reviews, in accordance with the 
requirements set out in Section 8, including sample reviews of credit lines; 
l. 
ensuring the integrity and reliability of the internal ratings assignment process, as 
described in Article 173 of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013, where relevant for 
institutions with permission to use an internal ratings-based approach, and the 
integrity and reliability of the rating scale and ratings assignment process used by the 
institution, for the institutions using the standardised approach; 
m. performing quality assurance of credit assessments, taking into account an appropriate 
sample size, and ensuring that credit risk is properly identified, measured, monitored 
                                                                                                              
26 EBA/GL/2018/06. 
27 EBA/GL/2015/12. 

PDF File: EBA GL 2020 06 Final Report on GL on loan origination and monitoring.pdf
Page 32:
FINAL REPORT – GUIDELINES ON LOAN ORIGINATION AND MONITORING 
 
 
32 
and managed within the institution’s business origination activities, and that regular 
reporting is communicated to the institution’s management body. 
4.6 Resources and skills 
79. Institutions should have sufficient resources and staff allocated to credit risk taking and, in 
particular, credit decision-making, credit risk management and internal control. The 
organisational structure should be reviewed periodically to ensure that there are adequate 
resources, competencies and expertise within the credit risk management functions to 
effectively manage credit risk. 
80. Institutions should ensure that the staff members involved in credit granting, in particular 
decision-making, risk management and internal control, have an appropriate level of 
experience, skills and credit-related competence. 
81. Staff involved in credit granting, including credit decision-making, credit risk management and 
internal control, should frequently receive appropriate training, which includes considering 
changes to the applicable legal and regulatory frameworks. Training should be aligned with the 
institutions’ credit culture and business strategy and should be conducted on a regular basis to 
ensure that all relevant staff are appropriately skilled and familiar with the institutions’ credit 
policies, procedures and processes. 
4.7 Remuneration 
82. As part of the requirements of institutions’ remuneration policies set out in Articles 74, 75 and 
92 of Directive 2013/36/EU and the EBA Guidelines on remuneration policies and practices 
related to the sale and provision of retail banking products and services, the EBA Guidelines on 
sound remuneration policies under Articles 74(3) and 75(2) of Directive 2013/36/EU and 
disclosures under Article 450 of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013, and Article 7 of 
Directive 2014/17/EU, institutions’ remuneration policies and practices should be in line with 
the approach to credit risk management, credit risk appetite and strategies, and should not 
create a conflict of interest. Remuneration policies and practices applicable to staff, and in 
particular identified staff engaged in credit granting, credit administration and monitoring, 
should be consistent and not provide incentives for risk taking that exceeds the tolerated risk 
of the institution, and should be aligned with the business strategy, objectives and long-term 
interests of the institution. In addition, remuneration policies and practices should incorporate 
measures to manage conflicts of interest, with a view to protecting consumers from 
undesirable detriment arising from the remuneration of sales staff. 
83. Institutions’ remuneration policies and practices should, in particular, ensure that the 
performance and risk measurement process to determine the variable remuneration of the 
staff involved in credit granting includes appropriate credit quality metrics that are in line with 
the institution’s credit risk appetite. 
 

PDF File: EBA GL 2020 06 Final Report on GL on loan origination and monitoring.pdf
Page 33:
FINAL REPORT – GUIDELINES ON LOAN ORIGINATION AND MONITORING 
 
 
33 
5. Loan origination procedures 
5.1 Information and documentation 
84. Institutions and creditors should have sufficient, accurate and up-to-date information and data 
necessary to assess the borrower’s creditworthiness and risk profile before concluding a loan 
agreement. 
85. For the purposes of the creditworthiness assessment of consumers, institutions and creditors 
should have available, and use, information supported by necessary and appropriate evidence, 
in relation to at least the following: 
a. 
purpose of the loan, when relevant to the type of product; 
b. 
employment; 
c. 
source of repayment capacity; 
d. 
composition of a household and dependents; 
e. 
financial commitments and expenses for their servicing; 
f. 
regular expenses; 
g. 
collateral (for secured lending); 
h. 
other risk mitigants, such as guarantees, when available. 
Institutions and creditors can consider the use of specific information, data items and evidence 
set out in Annex 2. 
86. For the purposes of the creditworthiness assessment of micro, small, medium-sized and large 
enterprises, institutions should have available, and use, information, supported by necessary 
and appropriate evidence, in relation to at least the following: 
a. 
purpose of the loan, when relevant to the type of product; 
b. 
income and cash flow; 
c. 
financial position and commitments, including assets pledged and contingent 
liabilities; 
d. 
business model and, when relevant, corporate structure; 
e. 
business plans supported by financial projections; 
f. 
collateral (for secured lending); 
g. 
other risk mitigants, such as guarantees, when available; 
h. 
product type-specific legal documentation (e.g. permits, contracts). 

PDF File: EBA GL 2020 06 Final Report on GL on loan origination and monitoring.pdf
Page 34:
FINAL REPORT – GUIDELINES ON LOAN ORIGINATION AND MONITORING 
 
 
34 
Institutions can consider the use of specific information, data items and evidence set out in 
Annex 2. 
87. Institutions and creditors may use the already available information and data for existing 
customers and borrowers, in accordance with the requirements of Regulation (EU) 
No 2016/679, and when such information and data are relevant and up to date. 
88. If the information and data are not readily available, institutions and creditors should collect 
the necessary information and data from the borrower and/or third parties, including relevant 
databases, when relevant. For the collection of information and data on the borrower from 
third parties, institutions and creditors should ensure that the requirements of Regulation (EU) 
No 2016/679 are met. 
89. If institutions and creditors have concerns regarding the accuracy and reliability of the 
information and data, they should make necessary checks and reasonable enquiries with the 
borrower and third parties (e.g. employer, public authorities, relevant databases), and take 
reasonable steps to verify the information and data collected. Before making such enquiries 
with third parties regarding borrower’s personal data, institutions and creditors should ensure 
that the requirements, in particular with regard to informing and seeking permission from the 
borrower, of Regulation (EU) No 2016/679 are met. 
90. Institutions and creditors should have an accurate single customer view that enables an 
assessment of the borrower’s ability to service and repay financial commitments. This single 
customer view applies to single borrowers, households, as appropriate, and members of 
consolidated groups for enterprises. The single customer view should be supplemented by the 
information provided by the borrower on the assets and liabilities held at other institutions or 
creditors. 
91. If the borrower is likely to face financial difficulties in meeting the contractual loan obligations, 
institutions and creditors should request, from the borrower, reliable documentation 
demonstrating realistic projections of their ability to maintain solvency. In this case, both 
information from third parties, such as tax advisors, auditors and other experts, and 
information from borrowers may be used. 
92. If a loan agreement involves guarantees from third parties, institutions and creditors should 
have a sufficient level of information and data necessary to assess the guarantee and, when 
relevant, the financial position of the guarantor. 
93. If the borrower is a member of a group of connected clients, institutions should collect the 
necessary information on relevant related connected clients, in accordance with the EBA 
Guidelines on connected clients, especially when repayment is reliant on cash flow emanating 
from other connected parties in the same group. 
94. Institutions and creditors should document the information and data that lead to credit 
approval, including the actions and assessments carried out by them, and maintain this 
documentation in an accessible form (readily available for competent authorities) for at least 
the duration of the loan agreement. 

PDF File: EBA GL 2020 06 Final Report on GL on loan origination and monitoring.pdf
Page 35:
FINAL REPORT – GUIDELINES ON LOAN ORIGINATION AND MONITORING 
 
 
35 
5.2 Assessment of borrower’s creditworthiness 
5.2.1 General provisions for lending to consumers 
95. Institutions should analyse the loan application of the borrower in order to ensure that the 
application is in line with the institutions’ credit risk appetite, policies, credit-granting criteria, 
limits and relevant metrics, as well as any relevant macroprudential measures where applied 
by the designated macroprudential authority. 
96. Institutions and creditors should, in line with the relevant consumer protection legislation, 
assess the borrower’s ability and prospect to meet the obligations under the loan agreement, 
covering, in particular, an assessment of the borrower’s source of repayment capacity, taking 
into account specificities of the loan, such as nature, maturity and interest rate. 
97. Collateral, in the case of secured lending, by itself should not be a predominant criterion for 
approving a loan and cannot by itself justify the approval of any loan agreement. Collateral 
should be considered the institution’s second way out in case of default or material 
deterioration of the risk profile, and not the primary source of repayment, with the exception 
of when the loan agreement envisages that the repayment of the loan is based on the sale of 
the property pledged as collateral or liquid collateral provided. 
98. When assessing the borrower’s ability to meet obligations under the loan agreement, 
institutions and creditors should take into account relevant factors that could influence the 
present and future repayment capacity of the borrower, and should avoid inducing undue 
hardship and over-indebtedness. The factors should include other servicing obligations, their 
remaining duration, their interest rates and the outstanding amounts, and repayment 
behaviour, e.g. evidence of any missed payments and their circumstances, as well as directly 
relevant taxes and insurance if known. 
99. If the loan application is submitted jointly by more than one borrower, institutions and creditors 
should perform the creditworthiness assessment on the basis of the joint repayment capacity 
of the borrowers. 
100. 
If a loan agreement involves any form of guarantees from third parties, institutions should 
assess the level of protection provided by the guarantee, and if relevant, conduct a 
creditworthiness assessment of the guarantor, applying the relevant provisions of these 
guidelines, depending on whether the guarantor is a natural person or an enterprise. 
101. 
For assessing the borrower’s ability to meet obligations under the loan agreement, 
institutions and creditors should adopt suitable methods and approaches, which may include 
models, as long as these guidelines are met. The selection of the suitable and adequate method 
should depend on the risk level, size and type of loan. 
5.2.2 Lending to consumers in relation to residential immovable property 
102. 
This section further specifies factors relevant to assessing the prospect of the borrower to 
meet obligations under a loan agreement as referred to in Article 18(1) and 20(1) of 

PDF File: EBA GL 2020 06 Final Report on GL on loan origination and monitoring.pdf
Page 36:
FINAL REPORT – GUIDELINES ON LOAN ORIGINATION AND MONITORING 
 
 
36 
Directive 2014/17/EU. In relation to loan agreements subject to national laws transposing that 
Directive, institutions and creditors should apply, in addition to provisions set out in 
Section 5.2.1, provisions set out in this section. 
103. 
When necessary, in particular in cases of borrowers who are self-employed or have 
seasonal or other irregular income, institutions and creditors should make reasonable enquiries 
and take reasonable steps to verify the information regarding the source of repayment 
capacity. 
104. 
If the loan term extends past the borrower’s expected retirement age, institutions and 
creditors should take appropriate account of the adequacy of the borrower’s likely source of 
repayment capacity and ability to continue to meet obligations under the loan agreement in 
retirement. 
105. 
Institutions and creditors should ensure that the borrower’s ability to meet obligations 
under the loan agreement is not based on an expected significant increase in the borrower’s 
income, unless the documentation provides sufficient evidence. 
106. 
When assessing the borrower’s ability to meet obligations under the loan agreement, 
institutions and creditors should account for committed and other non-discretionary 
expenditures, such as the borrower’s current obligations, including appropriate substantiation 
and consideration of living expenses. 
107. 
As part of the creditworthiness assessment, institutions and creditors should carry out 
sensitivity analyses reflecting potential negative events in the future, including a reduction in 
income; an increase in interest rates in cases of variable rate loan agreements; negative 
amortisation of the loan; and balloon payments or deferred payments of the principal or 
interest. 
108. 
In cases of foreign currency loans as defined in Article 4(28) of Directive 2014/17/EU, 
institutions and creditors should also factor into the assessment of the borrower’s capacity to 
meet the obligations potential negative scenarios of the exchange rate between the currency 
of the borrower’s income and the currency of the loan. Institutions and creditors should also 
take into account and assess any hedging strategies and actual hedges in place, including 
natural hedges, to mitigate foreign currency exchange risk. 
109. 
For loan agreements that relate to an immovable property that explicitly state that the 
immovable property is not to be occupied as a place of residence by the borrower or a family 
member (i.e. buy-to-let agreements) as referred to in point (b) of Article 3(3) of 
Directive 2014/17/EU, institutions and creditors should apply the criteria set out in 
Section 5.2.3. 
5.2.3 Other secured lending to consumers 
110. 
In relation to loan agreements secured by immovable property, other than those covered 
in Section 5.2.2, institutions and creditors should apply, in addition to the provisions set out in 
Section 5.2.1, provisions set out in this section. 

PDF File: EBA GL 2020 06 Final Report on GL on loan origination and monitoring.pdf
Page 37:
FINAL REPORT – GUIDELINES ON LOAN ORIGINATION AND MONITORING 
 
 
37 
111. 
If the property is still being constructed and intended to provide, upon completion, an 
income to its owner in the form of rents or profits from its sale, institutions should assess the 
development phase and the phase after the completion of the development, when the project 
converts into an income-producing property. For the purposes of such loan agreements, 
institutions and creditors should establish that: 
a. the borrower has a plausible plan related to the project, including estimates of all costs 
associated with the development; 
b. the borrower has access to builders, architects, engineers and contractors, who will 
take part in the development; 
c. the borrower has obtained or is able to obtain in the future all necessary permits and 
certificates for the development, as the project progresses. 
112. 
For loan agreements that relate to an immovable property that explicitly state that the 
immovable property is not to be occupied as a place of residence by the borrower or a family 
member (i.e. buy-to-let agreements), institutions should assess the relationship between the 
future rental income from the immovable property and the borrower’s ability to meet 
obligations. 
113. 
As part of the creditworthiness assessment, institutions should carry out sensitivity 
analyses to reflect potential negative market and idiosyncratic events in the future that are 
relevant to the type and purpose of the loan. These events may include a reduction in income; 
an increase in interest rates in cases of variable rate loan agreements; negative amortisation of 
the loan; balloon payments or deferred payments of the principal or interest; and, when 
relevant, deterioration in the marketability of the immovable property, an increase in vacancy 
rates and a reduction in the rental prices for similar properties. When relevant, institutions and 
creditors should also consider the implication of foreign currency exchange rate risk, as 
provided in paragraph 108. 
5.2.4 Unsecured lending to consumers 
114. 
This section further specifies the requirements to assess the creditworthiness of the 
borrower referred to in Article 8 of Directive 2008/48/EC. In relation to loan agreements subject 
to national laws transposing that Directive institutions and creditors should apply, in addition 
to provisions set out in Section 5.2.1, provisions set out in this section. 
115. 
Where necessary, in particular in cases of borrowers who are self-employed or have 
seasonal or other irregular income, institutions and creditors should make reasonable enquiries 
and take reasonable steps to assess and verify the source of repayment capacity. 
116. 
Institutions and creditors should ensure that the borrower’s ability to meet obligations 
under the loan agreement is not based on an expected significant increase in the borrower’s 
income, unless the documentation provides sufficient evidence. 
117. 
As part of the creditworthiness assessment, institutions and creditors, if applicable, should 
carry out sensitivity analyses to reflect potential negative events specific to the type of loan 

PDF File: EBA GL 2020 06 Final Report on GL on loan origination and monitoring.pdf
Page 38:
FINAL REPORT – GUIDELINES ON LOAN ORIGINATION AND MONITORING 
 
 
38 
that may occur in the future. When relevant, institutions and creditors should also consider the 
implication of foreign currency exchange rate risk, as provided in paragraph 108. 
5.2.5 Lending to micro and small enterprises 
118. 
Institutions should assess the borrower’s current and future ability to meet the obligations 
under the loan agreement. Institutions should also analyse the loan application of the borrower 
in order to ensure that the application is in line with the institution’s credit risk appetite, 
policies, credit-granting criteria, limits and relevant metrics, as well as any relevant 
macroprudential measures, where applied by the designated macroprudential authority. 
119. 
Institutions should consider that cash flow from the ordinary business activities of the 
borrower and, when applicable within the purpose of the loan agreement, any proceeds on the 
sale of the assets are the primary sources of repayment. 
120. 
When assessing the creditworthiness of the borrower, institutions should put emphasis on 
the borrower’s realistic and sustainable future income and future cash flow, and not on 
available collateral. Collateral by itself should not be a predominant criterion for approving a 
loan and cannot by itself justify the approval of any loan agreement. Collateral should be 
considered the institution’s second way out in case of default or material deterioration of the 
risk profile, and not the primary source of repayment, with the exception of when the loan 
agreement envisages that the repayment of the loan is based on the sale of the property 
pledged as collateral or liquid collateral provided. 
121. 
When carrying out the creditworthiness assessment, institutions should: 
a. 
analyse the financial position and credit risk of the borrower, as set out below; 
b. 
analyse the business model and strategy of the borrower, as set out below; 
c. 
determine and assess the borrower’s credit scoring or internal rating, where 
applicable, in accordance with the credit risk policies and procedures; 
d. 
consider all the borrower’s financial commitments, such as drawn and undrawn 
committed facilities with institutions, including working capital facilities, credit 
exposures of the borrower and the past repayment behaviour of the borrower, as well 
as other obligations arising from tax or other public authorities or social security funds; 
e. 
when relevant, assess the structure of the transaction, including the risk of structural 
subordination and related terms, e.g. covenants, and, if applicable, third-party 
guarantees and collateral structure. 
122. 
Institutions should carry out the creditworthiness assessment in relation to the specificities 
of the loan, such as nature, maturity and interest rate. 
123. 
For assessing the borrower’s ability to meet obligations under the loan agreement, 
institutions should adopt suitable methods and approaches, which may include models, as long 
as these guidelines are met. The selection of the suitable and adequate method should depend 
on the risk level, size and type of loan. 

PDF File: EBA GL 2020 06 Final Report on GL on loan origination and monitoring.pdf
Page 39:
FINAL REPORT – GUIDELINES ON LOAN ORIGINATION AND MONITORING 
 
 
39 
124. 
If the borrower is a member of a group of connected clients, institutions should carry out 
the assessment at individual level and, where relevant, at group level, in accordance with the 
EBA Guidelines on connected clients, especially when repayment is reliant on cash flow 
emanating from other connected parties. If the borrower is a member of a group of connected 
clients linked to central banks and sovereigns, including central governments, regional and local 
authorities, and public sector entities, institutions should assess the individual entity. 
125. 
For lending activities with cross-border elements (e.g. trade finance, export finance), 
institutions should take into account the political, economic and legal environment in which 
the foreign counterparty of the institution’s client operates. Institutions should assess the 
buyer’s ability to transfer funds, the supplier’s capacity to deliver the order, including its 
capacity to meet the applicable local legal requirements, and the supplier’s financial capacity 
to handle possible delays in transaction. 
126. 
Institutions should assess the borrower’s exposure to ESG factors, in particular 
environmental factors and the impact on climate change, and the appropriateness of the 
mitigating strategies, as set out by the borrower. This analysis should be performed on a 
borrower basis; however, when relevant, institutions may also consider performing this 
analysis on a portfolio basis. 
127. 
In order to identify borrowers that are exposed, directly or indirectly, to increased risk 
associated with ESG factors, institutions should consider using heat maps that highlight, for 
example, climate-related and environmental risks of individual economic (sub-)sectors in a 
chart or on a scaling system. For loans or borrowers associated with a higher ESG risk, a more 
intensive analysis of the actual business model of the borrower is required, including a review 
of current and projected greenhouse gas emissions, the market environment, supervisory ESG 
requirements for the companies under consideration and the likely impacts of ESG regulation 
on the borrower’s financial position. 
Analysis of the borrower’s financial position 
128. 
For the purposes of the analysis of the financial position within the creditworthiness 
assessment as specified above, institutions should consider the following: 
a. 
both the current and the projected financial position, including balance sheets, source 
of repayment capacity to meet contractual obligations, including under possible 
adverse events, and, where relevant, capital structure, working capital, income and 
cash flow; 
b. 
where relevant, the borrower’s leverage level, dividend distribution, and actual and 
projected/forecasted capital expenditure, as well as its cash conversion cycle in 
relation to the facility under consideration; 
c. 
where relevant, the exposure profile until maturity, in relation to potential market 
movements, such as exposures denominated in foreign currencies and exposures 
collateralised by repayment vehicles; 

PDF File: EBA GL 2020 06 Final Report on GL on loan origination and monitoring.pdf
Page 40:
FINAL REPORT – GUIDELINES ON LOAN ORIGINATION AND MONITORING 
 
 
40 
d. 
where applicable, the probability of default, based on credit scoring or internal risk 
rating;  
e. 
the use of appropriate financial, asset class-specific or product type-specific metrics 
and indicators, in line with their credit risk appetite, policies and limits set out in 
accordance with Sections 4.2 and 4.3, including considering metrics in Annex 3 to an 
extent that is applicable and appropriate to the specific credit proposal. 
129. 
Institutions should ensure that the financial projections used in the analysis are realistic 
and reasonable. These projections/forecasts should be at least based on projecting historical 
financial data forward. Institutions should assess if these projections are in line with the 
institution’s economic and market expectations. When institutions have material concerns 
about the reliability of these financial projections, they should make their own projections of 
the borrowers’ financial position and repayment capacity. 
130. 
If applicable, institutions should assess the financial position when granting loans to holding 
companies, both as a separate entity, e.g. at consolidated level, and as a single entity, if the 
holding company is not itself an operating company or institutions do not have guarantees from 
the operating companies to the holding company. 
131. 
When assessing the borrowers’ financial position, institutions should assess the 
sustainability and feasibility of the future repayment capacity under potential adverse 
conditions that are relevant to the type and purpose of the loan and may occur in the duration 
of the loan agreement. These events may include a reduction in income and other cash flow; 
an increase in interest rates; negative amortisation of the loan; deferred payments of principal 
or interest; deterioration in the market and operating conditions for the borrower; and foreign 
currency exchange rate changes, when relevant. 
Analysis of the borrower’s business model and strategy 
132. 
Institutions should assess the business model and strategy of the borrowers, including in 
relation to the purpose of the loan. 
133. 
Institutions should assess the borrower’s knowledge, experience and capacity to manage 
business activities, assets or investments linked to the loan agreements (e.g. specific property 
for a CRE loan). 
134. 
Institutions should assess the feasibility of the business plan and associated financial 
projections, in line with the specificities of the sector in which the borrower operates. 
135. 
Institutions should assess the borrower’s reliance on key contracts, customers or suppliers 
and how they affect cash flow generation, including any concentrations. 
136. 
Institutions should assess the presence of any potential key-person dependency with 
regard to the borrower and, when necessary, identify, together with the borrower, possible 
mitigation measures. 
 

PDF File: EBA GL 2020 06 Final Report on GL on loan origination and monitoring.pdf
Page 41:
FINAL REPORT – GUIDELINES ON LOAN ORIGINATION AND MONITORING 
 
 
41 
Assessment of guarantees and collateral 
137. 
Institutions should assess any pledged collateral that is used for the purposes of risk 
mitigation against the requirements for collateral set out in the institution’s credit risk appetite, 
policies and procedures, including the valuation and ownership, and check all relevant 
documentation (e.g. whether property is registered in appropriate registers). 
138. 
Institutions should assess any guarantees, covenants, negative pledge clauses and debt 
service agreements that are used for the purposes of risk mitigation. 
139. 
When relevant to credit decisions, institutions should assess the borrower’s equity and 
credit enhancements, such as mortgage insurance, take-out commitments and repayment 
guarantees from external sources. 
140. 
If a loan agreement involves any form of guarantees from third parties, institutions should 
assess the level of protection provided by the guarantee, and if relevant, conduct a 
creditworthiness assessment of the guarantor, applying the relevant provisions of these 
guidelines, depending on whether the guarantor is a natural person or an enterprise. The 
creditworthiness assessment of the guarantor should be proportionate to the size of the 
guarantee in relation to the loan and the type of guarantor. 
5.2.6 Lending to medium-sized and large enterprises 
141. 
Institutions should assess the borrower’s current and future ability to meet the obligations 
under the loan agreement. Institutions should also analyse the loan application of the borrower 
in order to ensure that the application is in line with the institution’s credit risk appetite, 
policies, credit-granting criteria, limits and relevant metrics, as well as any relevant 
macroprudential measures, where applied by the designated macroprudential authority. 
142. 
Institutions should consider that cash flow from the ordinary business activities of the 
borrower and, when applicable within the purpose of the loan agreement, any proceeds on the 
sale of the assets are the primary sources of repayment. 
143. 
When assessing the creditworthiness of the borrower, institutions should put emphasis on 
the borrower’s realistic and sustainable future income and future cash flow, and not on 
available collateral. Collateral by itself should not be a predominant criterion for approving a 
loan and cannot by itself justify the approval of any loan agreement. Collateral should be 
considered the institution’s second way out in case of default or material deterioration of the 
risk profile, and not the primary source of repayment, with the exception of when the loan 
agreement envisages that the repayment of the loan is based on the sale of the property 
pledged as collateral or liquid collateral provided. 
144. 
When carrying out the creditworthiness assessment, institutions should: 
a. 
analyse the financial position and credit risk of the borrower, as set out below; 
b. 
analyse the organisational structure, business model and strategy of the borrower, as 
set out below; 

PDF File: EBA GL 2020 06 Final Report on GL on loan origination and monitoring.pdf
Page 42:
FINAL REPORT – GUIDELINES ON LOAN ORIGINATION AND MONITORING 
 
 
42 
c. 
determine and assess the borrower’s credit scoring or internal rating, where 
applicable, in accordance with the credit risk policies and procedures; 
d. 
consider all the borrower’s financial commitments, such as all drawn and undrawn 
committed facilities with institutions, including working capital facilities, credit 
exposures of the borrower and the past repayment behaviour of the borrower, as well 
as other obligations arising from tax or other public authorities or social security funds; 
e. 
assess the structure of the transaction, including the risk of structural subordination 
and related terms, e.g. covenants, and, if applicable, third-party guarantees and 
collateral structure. 
145. 
Institutions should carry out the creditworthiness assessment in relation to the specificities 
of the loan, such as nature, maturity and interest rate. 
146. 
Institutions should assess the borrower’s exposure to ESG factors, in particular 
environmental factors and the impact on climate change, and the appropriateness of the 
mitigating strategies, as set out by the borrower. 
147. 
If the borrower is a member of a group of connected clients, institutions should carry out 
the assessment at individual level and, where relevant, at group level, in accordance with the 
EBA Guidelines on connected clients, especially when repayment is reliant on cash flow 
emanating from other connected parties. If the borrower is a member of a group of connected 
clients linked to central banks and sovereigns, including central governments, regional and local 
authorities, and public sector entities, institutions should assess the individual entity. 
148. 
For lending activities with cross-border elements (e.g. trade finance, export finance), 
institutions should take into account the political, economic and legal environment in which 
the foreign counterparty of the institution’s client operates. Institutions should assess the 
buyer’s potential to transfer funds, the supplier’s capacity to deliver the order, including its 
capacity to meet the applicable local legal requirements, and the supplier’s financial capacity 
to handle possible delays in transaction. 
149. 
In order to identify borrowers that are exposed, directly or indirectly, to increased risks 
associated with ESG factors, institutions should consider using heat maps that highlight, for 
example, climate-related and environmental risks of individual economic (sub-)sectors in a 
chart or on a scaling system. For loans or borrowers associated with a higher ESG risk, a more 
intensive analysis of the actual business model of the borrower is required, including a review 
of current and projected greenhouse gas emissions, the market environment, supervisory ESG 
requirements for the companies under consideration and the likely impacts of ESG regulation 
on the borrower’s financial position. 
Analysis of the borrower’s financial position 
150. 
For the purposes of the analysis of the financial position within the creditworthiness 
assessment as specified above, institutions should consider the following: 

PDF File: EBA GL 2020 06 Final Report on GL on loan origination and monitoring.pdf
Page 43:
FINAL REPORT – GUIDELINES ON LOAN ORIGINATION AND MONITORING 
 
 
43 
a. 
both the current and the projected financial position, including balance sheets and 
capital structure, working capital, income, cash flow and the source of repayment 
capacity to meet contractual obligations, e.g. debt-servicing capacity, including under 
possible adverse events (see also sensitivity analysis) – items to be analysed should 
include but not be limited to free cash flow available for debt servicing of the facility 
under consideration; 
b. 
net operating income and profitability, especially in relation to interest-carrying debt; 
c. 
the borrower’s leverage level, dividend distribution, and actual and projected capital 
expenditure, as well as its cash conversion cycle in relation to the facility under 
consideration; 
d. 
the exposure profile until maturity, in relation to potential market movements (e.g. 
exposures denominated in foreign currencies and exposures collateralised by 
repayment vehicles); 
e. 
where applicable, the probability of default, based on credit scoring or internal risk 
rating;  
f. 
the use of appropriate financial, asset class- or product type-specific metrics and 
indicators, in line with their credit risk appetite, policies and limits set out in 
accordance with Sections 4.2 and 4.3, including considering metrics in Annex 3 to an 
extent that is applicable and appropriate to the specific credit proposal. 
151. 
Institutions should ensure that the projections used in the analysis are realistic and 
reasonable and are in line with the institutions’ economic and market expectations. When 
institutions have material concerns about the reliability of these financial projections, they 
should make their own projections of the borrowers’ financial position and, when relevant, use 
them to challenge the projections provided by the borrowers. 
152. 
Institutions should also assess the borrower’s capacity for future profitability, to measure 
the impact of retained earnings and hence the impact on equity, particularly in cases where the 
borrower has been unable to generate positive profits over time. 
153. 
Institutions should perform an assessment of the cash conversion cycle of the borrower, to 
measure the time it takes for the business to convert the investment in inventory and other 
resource inputs into cash through the sale of its specific goods and services. Institutions should 
be able to understand the cash conversion cycle of a borrower to estimate working capital 
needs and identify recurring costs, in order to assess the ongoing capacity to repay credit 
facilities over time. 
154. 
Institutions should, when relevant, assess these financial metrics against the metrics and 
limits set out in their credit risk appetite, credit risk policies and limits, in accordance with 
Sections 4.2 and 4.3. 
155. 
Institutions should assess the financial position when granting loans to holding companies, 
both as a separate entity, e.g. at consolidated level, and as a single entity, if the holding 

PDF File: EBA GL 2020 06 Final Report on GL on loan origination and monitoring.pdf
Page 44:
FINAL REPORT – GUIDELINES ON LOAN ORIGINATION AND MONITORING 
 
 
44 
company is not itself an operating company or institutions do not have guarantees from the 
operating companies to the holding company. 
Sensitivity analysis in creditworthiness assessment 
156. 
Institutions should assess the sustainability and feasibility of the borrower’s financial 
position and the future repayment capacity under potential adverse conditions that may occur 
in the duration of the loan agreement. To this end, institutions should carry out a single- or 
multifactor sensitivity analysis, considering market and idiosyncratic events, or a combination 
of any of them. 
157. 
This sensitivity analysis should account for all general and asset class and product-specific 
aspects that may have an impact on the creditworthiness of the borrower. 
158. 
When carrying out a sensitivity analysis of the borrower’s repayment capacity under 
negative future conditions, institutions should take into account the following events that are 
most relevant to the specific circumstances and the business model of the borrower: 
Idiosyncratic events 
a. 
a severe but plausible decline in a borrower’s revenues or profit margins; 
b. 
a severe but plausible operational loss event; 
c. 
the occurrence of severe but plausible management problems; 
d. 
the failures of significant trading partners, customers or suppliers; 
e. 
a severe but plausible reputational damage; 
f. 
a severe but plausible outflow of liquidity, changes in funding or an increase in a 
borrower’s balance sheet leverage; 
g. 
adverse movements in the price of assets to which the borrower is predominantly 
exposed (e.g. as raw material or end product) and foreign exchange risk; 
Market events 
h. 
a severe but plausible macroeconomic downturn; 
i. 
a severe but plausible downturn in the economic sectors in which the borrower and 
its clients are operating; 
j. 
a significant change in political, regulatory and geographical risk; 
k. 
a severe but plausible increase in the cost of funding, e.g. an increase in the interest 
rate by 200 basis points on all credit facilities of the borrower. 
Analysis of the borrower’s business model and strategy 
159. 
Institutions should assess the business model and strategy of the borrowers, including in 
relation to the purpose of the loan. 

PDF File: EBA GL 2020 06 Final Report on GL on loan origination and monitoring.pdf
Page 45:
FINAL REPORT – GUIDELINES ON LOAN ORIGINATION AND MONITORING 
 
 
45 
160. 
Institutions should assess the borrower’s knowledge, experience and capacity to manage 
business activities, assets or investments linked to the loan agreements (e.g. specific property 
for the CRE loan). 
161. 
Institutions should assess the feasibility of the business plan and associated financial 
projections, in line with the specificities of the sector in which the borrower operates. 
162. 
Institutions should assess the borrower’s reliance on key contracts, customers or suppliers 
and how they affect cash flow generation, including any concentrations. 
Assessment of guarantees and collateral 
163. 
Institutions should assess any pledged collateral against the requirements for collateral set 
out in the institution’s credit risk appetite, policies and procedures, including the valuation and 
ownership, and check all relevant documentation (e.g. whether property is registered in 
appropriate registers). 
164. 
Institutions should assess any guarantees, covenants, negative pledge clauses and debt 
service agreements that are used for the purposes of risk mitigation. Institutions should also 
consider if the value of the collateral is in some way correlated with the borrower’s business or 
capacity to generate cash flow. 
165. 
Institutions should assess the borrower’s equity and credit enhancements, such as 
mortgage insurance, take-out commitments and repayment guarantees from external sources. 
166. 
If a loan agreement involves any form of guarantees from third parties, institutions should 
assess the level of protection provided by the guarantee and, if relevant, conduct a 
creditworthiness assessment of the guarantor, applying the relevant provisions of these 
guidelines, depending on whether the guarantor is a natural person or an enterprise. The 
creditworthiness assessment of the guarantor should be proportionate to the size of the 
guarantee in relation to the loan and the type of guarantor. 
167. 
If, in the syndicated lending or project finance transactions, the payment streams pass 
through a third party to the transactions, e.g. a designated agent, institutions (or mandated 
lead arrangers or their nominated agents) should assess the soundness of the agent. For cross-
border lending and project finance transactions, the agent should be the sole issuer of any 
guarantees, letters of credit or similar documents issued on behalf of the supplier in the 
transaction. 
5.2.7 Commercial real estate lending 
168. 
When assessing the creditworthiness of the borrowers in cases of CRE lending, in addition 
to the general criteria for the creditworthiness assessment set out in Section 5.2.5 and 
Section 5.2.6, institutions should apply the specific criteria set out in this section. When 
assessing the creditworthiness of the borrowers in cases of lending for commercial real estate 
to be used by the borrower that owns the property for conducting business, institutions should 
apply the criteria set out in Section 5.2.5 and Section 5.2.6 only. 

PDF File: EBA GL 2020 06 Final Report on GL on loan origination and monitoring.pdf
Page 46:
FINAL REPORT – GUIDELINES ON LOAN ORIGINATION AND MONITORING 
 
 
46 
169. 
Institutions should assess and verify the borrower’s experience in relation to the type, size 
and geographical location of the CRE. When the borrower is a special purpose vehicle 
sponsored by another entity, institutions should assess the sponsoring entity’s experience in 
relation to the type, size and geographical location of the CRE. 
170. 
Institutions should carry out an assessment of the income-producing capacity of the 
property and an assessment of the prospect of refinancing. These assessments should account 
for the committed term of the CRE loan under the loan application in question. 
171. 
In the assessment of the borrower’s repayment capacity, institutions should assess, where 
relevant: 
a. 
the sustainability of the cash flow; 
b. 
the quality of the tenants, the impact of changes to current rental income on the 
amortisation schedule, lease terms, maturities and conditions, and payment history of 
the tenant if already in place; 
c. 
reletting prospects, the cash flow required to service the loan in accordance with the 
loan agreement if there are needs for reletting, if applicable the performance of the 
asset in an economic downturn, and fluctuations in rental yields over time, to assess 
the presence of overly compressed yields;  
d. 
necessary capital expenditure on the property throughout the term of the loan. 
172. 
In the assessment of the prospects of reletting any property, institutions should account 
for tenants’ demand for that property, having regard to the supply of comparable properties, 
the conditions and specifications of the property, the location of the property and the proximity 
to relevant infrastructure serving the property. 
173. 
When interest-only loans are advanced for CRE, institutions should assess property cash 
flow to support a level of amortisation equivalent to the projected economic life cycle of the 
property, to clear the principal amount and interest of the loan in the event of an increase in 
the loan to value (LTV) for the property, or to a regular LTV level in the relevant market. 
Institutions should also consider such analysis when borrowers have additional credit 
enhancements, e.g. disposal assets that are legally enforceable in a reasonable time period. 
174. 
For the purposes of the sensitivity analysis under adverse market and idiosyncratic events, 
institutions should, in addition to the events specified in Section 5.2.5 and Section 5.2.6, take 
into account the following, as applicable: 
a. 
reletting, including a change in the rental prices, lease length in relation to loan term 
service charges, an increase in vacancy rates, maintenance and refurbishment costs, 
rent-free periods and letting inducement; 
b. 
risks and delays associated with refinancing; 
c. 
capital expenditure risk; 
d. 
other relevant criteria. 

PDF File: EBA GL 2020 06 Final Report on GL on loan origination and monitoring.pdf
Page 47:
FINAL REPORT – GUIDELINES ON LOAN ORIGINATION AND MONITORING 
 
 
47 
5.2.8 Lending for real estate development 
175. 
When assessing the creditworthiness of the borrowers in cases of lending for real estate 
development, in addition to the general provisions on the creditworthiness assessment set out 
in Section 5.2.5 and Section 5.2.6, institutions should apply the specific provisions of this 
section. 
176. 
The creditworthiness assessment should cover, in line with the life cycle of the loan, both 
the development phase, including its stages, when relevant, and the phase after the completion 
of the development, when the project converts into a CRE loan. The latter stage should be 
assessed as CRE lending, in accordance with the provisions of these guidelines. 
177. 
In the assessment of the development phase, institutions should establish that the 
borrower: 
a. 
has a plausible business plan, including a rationale for the development and a 
projection of all costs associated with the development verified by an independent 
expert; 
b. 
has access to builders, architects, engineers and contractors for the development of 
the real estate; 
c. 
has obtained or is able to obtain in the future all necessary permits and certificates for 
the development, as the project progresses and before disbursement(s). 
178. 
Institutions should ensure that the calculation of costs associated with the development 
include contingencies for cost overruns. Planned contingencies should be included in the credit 
limit or equity. Institutions should assess the level of cash reserves and liquidity profile of the 
borrower to ensure that the borrower has the capacity to fund unplanned contingencies for 
cost overruns and delays, if any, above the contingency sum. 
179. 
Institutions should perform an assessment of the feasibility of any projected net sale 
proceed projection, in terms of both value and volume of sales and timelines. 
180. 
Institutions should carry out on-site visits, where relevant accompanied by a suitably 
qualified person, to verify the main components of the site, including access and site 
specificities, and retain a summary of the site visit in the file on the borrower. 
181. 
In addition to assessing the creditworthiness of the borrower, institutions, when relevant 
(e.g. in cases of margin calls), should assess equity investors in the project, focusing on assessing 
their financial position, relevant expertise and experiences in similar projects, as well as the 
alignment of interests between the equity investors and the institutions offering lending to the 
same project. 
5.2.9 Leveraged transactions 
182. 
When assessing the creditworthiness of the borrowers in cases of leveraged transactions, 
in addition to the general provisions on the creditworthiness assessment set out in 
Section 5.2.5 and Section 5.2.6, institutions should identify excessive leverage at origination, 

PDF File: EBA GL 2020 06 Final Report on GL on loan origination and monitoring.pdf
Page 48:
FINAL REPORT – GUIDELINES ON LOAN ORIGINATION AND MONITORING 
 
 
48 
defined as a ratio: total debt to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortisation 
(EBITDA). Transactions with excessive leverage should remain exceptional (and should be in 
line with an institution’s risk appetite) and form part of the credit delegation and risk 
management escalation framework of an institution. 
183. 
Institutions should conduct a comprehensive assessment of a borrower’s capacity to repay 
or deleverage to sustainable levels of debt within a reasonable period of time. 
5.2.10 Shipping finance 
184. 
When assessing the creditworthiness of borrowers in the case of shipping finance, in 
addition to the general provisions on the creditworthiness assessment set out in Section 5.2.5 
and Section 5.2.6, institutions should apply the specific criteria set out in this section. In 
particular, institutions should assess the following: 
a. 
the vessel’s earnings to costs (operation expenses, including insurance, wages, 
maintenance, lubricants and interest cost) ratio; 
b. 
the ratio of the vessel’s current age to its expected useful life; 
c. 
characteristics of the borrower’s fleet in relation to the global fleet population (the 
size of the new build activity, the number of vessels laid up, the number of vessels 
scrapped for each segment and the age of the vessels will determine over-tonnage 
and influence freight rates); 
d. 
vessel valuations with or without haircut (if those are included as a repayment source), 
to reflect selling costs, the time value of money and uncertainties regarding the 
liquidity and marketability of the asset, unless single valuations are not possible if 
vessels are operated as part of a larger fleet with widely different types of earnings. 
185. 
Institutions should also consider other factors, such as the supply and demand in the 
market for the type of vessel in question, present and future trade patterns for the type of 
vessel in question, the necessity for the loan to be non-recourse or have guarantees, or have a 
long-term charter with an acceptable end user, and if the ship owner can provide other 
securities, such as assignments of charters and insurances, charges of shares and cash collateral 
or mortgages of other assets, such as real property and sister vessels. 
186. 
In the case of loans to shipbuilding, institutions should establish that the borrower: 
a. 
has a plausible business plan, including a rationale for the development and a 
projection of all associated costs verified by an independent expert; 
b. 
has access to builders, marine architects, engineers and shipbuilding contractors;  
c. 
has obtained or is able to obtain in the future all necessary permits and certificates for 
the development, as the project progresses. 
 
 

PDF File: EBA GL 2020 06 Final Report on GL on loan origination and monitoring.pdf
Page 49:
FINAL REPORT – GUIDELINES ON LOAN ORIGINATION AND MONITORING 
 
 
49 
5.2.11 Project finance 
187. 
When assessing the creditworthiness of the borrowers in cases of project finance, in 
addition to the general provisions on the creditworthiness assessment set out in Section 5.2.5 
and Section 5.2.6, institutions should follow the specific criteria of this section. 
188. 
Institutions should assess the primary source of repayment of the loan, which is the income 
generated by the assets (project) being financed. Institutions should assess the cash flow 
associated with the project, including future income-producing capacity once the project is 
completed, taking into account any applicable regulatory or legal restriction (e.g. price 
regulation, rate-of-return regulation, revenues being subject to take-or-pay contracts, 
environmental legislation and regulations affecting the profitability of a project). 
189. 
As far as possible, institutions should ensure that all the assets of the project and the 
present and future cash flow and accounts are pledged to the institution providing the lending 
or to the agent/underwriter in the case of a syndicated transaction/club deal. If a special 
purpose vehicle is established for the project, the shares in that special purpose vehicle should 
be pledged to the institution, to enable the institution/agent to take possession of the company 
if needed. In cases of syndicated transactions/club deals, inter-creditor agreements should 
regulate each creditor’s access to pledged funds and assets. 
190. 
In the assessment of the development phase of the project, institutions should establish 
that the borrower: 
a. has a plausible business plan, including a rationale for the development and a 
projection of all costs associated with the development verified by an independent 
expert; 
b. has access to builders, architects, engineers and contractors for the project; 
c. has obtained or is able to obtain in the future all necessary permits and certificates for 
the development, as the project progresses. 
191. 
Institutions should ensure that the calculation of costs associated with the development, 
as provided by the borrower, includes contingencies for cost overruns. Such planned 
contingencies should be included in the credit limit or equity. Institutions should assess the 
level of cash reserves and liquidity profile of the borrower or equity investors to ensure that 
they have the capacity to fund unplanned contingencies for cost overruns and delays, if any, 
above the contingency sum. 
192. 
In addition to assessing the creditworthiness of the borrower, institutions should assess 
equity investors in the project, focusing when relevant on assessing their financial position, 
relevant expertise, experiences in similar projects, ability and willingness to support the project 
over the project’s lifetime. 
 
 

PDF File: EBA GL 2020 06 Final Report on GL on loan origination and monitoring.pdf
Page 50:
FINAL REPORT – GUIDELINES ON LOAN ORIGINATION AND MONITORING 
 
 
50 
5.3 Credit decision and loan agreement 
193. 
In order to carry out a reliable and accurate creditworthiness assessment, institutions and 
creditors should design relevant documentation regarding credit decisions and loan 
agreements in a way that helps identify and prevent a misrepresentation of the information by 
the borrower, credit intermediary or staff members of the institution that is involved with the 
assessment of the application. 
194. 
The creditworthiness assessment performed in accordance with Section 5.2 should be 
properly documented and used as the basis of the proposal to approve or decline the loan 
application by the relevant credit decision-maker. The documented outcomes of the 
creditworthiness assessment itself should be able to justify the proposal to approve or decline 
the loan application. 
195. 
The decision to approve or decline the loan application (credit decision) should be taken by 
the relevant credit decision-maker, in accordance with the policies and procedures and 
governance arrangements set out in Section 4.3. 
196. 
The credit decision should be clear and well documented and include all the conditions and 
pre-conditions, including those to mitigate the risks identified in the creditworthiness 
assessment, such as risks associated with ESG factors, for the loan agreement and 
disbursement. 
197. 
The credit decision should clearly articulate a maximum period for its validity. If an 
approved transaction is not executed within this period, a new credit proposal should be 
submitted for approval. Where relevant, due account should be taken in the provisions of 
Article 14(6) of Directive 2014/17/EU on the duration of the binding offer. 
198. 
The conclusion of the credit agreement should not take place unless the institutions and 
creditors have verified that all pre-conditions and conditions that have been set out in the credit 
decision are fulfilled. The disbursement should take place only after the conclusion of the credit 
agreement. 
 

PDF File: EBA GL 2020 06 Final Report on GL on loan origination and monitoring.pdf
Page 51:
FINAL REPORT – GUIDELINES ON LOAN ORIGINATION AND MONITORING 
 
 
51 
6. Pricing 
199. 
Pricing frameworks should reflect institutions’ credit risk appetite and business strategies, 
including profitability and risk perspective. Loan pricing should also be linked to the 
characteristics of the loan product and consider competition and prevailing market conditions. 
Institutions should also define their approach to pricing by borrower type and credit quality, 
and riskiness of the borrower (in the case of individual pricing) when appropriate. Institutions 
should ensure that the pricing framework is well documented and supported by appropriate 
governance structures, such as a pricing committee, that are responsible for the maintenance 
of the overall pricing framework and for individual pricing decisions when relevant. 
200. 
Institutions should consider differentiating between their pricing frameworks, depending 
on the types of loans and borrowers. For consumers and micro and small enterprises, the 
pricing should be more portfolio and product based, whereas for medium-sized and large 
enterprises the pricing should be more transaction and loan specific. 
201. 
Institutions should set out specific approaches to pricing promotional loans, when risk-
based and performance considerations specified in this section do not fully apply. 
202. 
Institutions should consider, and reflect in loan pricing, all relevant costs until the next 
repricing date or maturity, including: 
a. 
the cost of capital (considering both regulatory and economic capital), which should 
result from the capital allocation in place, according to the established breakdowns, 
e.g. geography, business line and product; 
b. 
the cost of funding, which should match the key features of the loan, e.g. the expected 
duration of the loan, taking into account not only contractual terms but also 
behavioural assumptions, e.g. pre-payment risk; 
c. 
operating and administrative costs, which should result from cost allocation; 
d. 
credit risk costs calculated for different homogeneous risk groups, taking into account 
historical experience of recognising credit risk losses and when relevant using 
expected loss models; 
e. 
any other real costs associated with the loan in question, including tax considerations, 
when relevant; 
f. 
competition and prevailing market conditions, in particular lending segments and for 
particular loan products. 
203. 
For the purposes of pricing and measuring profitability, including cross-subsidisation 
between loans or business units/lines, institutions should consider and account for risk-
adjusted performance measures in a manner that is proportionate to the size, nature and 
complexity of the loan and the risk profile of the borrower. Such performance measures could 

PDF File: EBA GL 2020 06 Final Report on GL on loan origination and monitoring.pdf
Page 52:
FINAL REPORT – GUIDELINES ON LOAN ORIGINATION AND MONITORING 
 
 
52 
include economic value added (EVA), return on risk-adjusted capital (RORAC) and risk-adjusted 
return on capital (RAROC), return on risk-weighted assets (RORWA), return on total assets 
(ROTA) and other measures that are relevant to the characteristics of the loan. Risk-adjusted 
performance measures may also depend on and reflect institutions’ capital-planning strategies 
and policies. 
204. 
Institutions should transparently document and review the underlying cost allocation 
framework. Institutions should establish a fair distribution of costs within the organisation in 
order to ensure that business lines, and as far as possible individual loans, reflect the correct 
expected return corresponding to the risk assumed. 
205. 
Institutions should implement ex ante transaction tools and regular ex post monitoring, 
linking together transaction risk, pricing and expected overall profitability at an appropriate 
level, including business lines and product lines. All material transactions below costs should 
be reported and properly justified, in line with the policies and procedures established by the 
institution. The monitoring process should provide an input for the review of the adequacy of 
overall pricing from a business and risk perspective. If needed, institutions should take actions 
in order to ensure compliance with targets and risk appetite. 
 
 

PDF File: EBA GL 2020 06 Final Report on GL on loan origination and monitoring.pdf
Page 53:
FINAL REPORT – GUIDELINES ON LOAN ORIGINATION AND MONITORING 
 
 
53 
7. Valuation of immovable and movable 
property 
7.1 Valuation at the point of origination 
206. 
When a credit facility is secured by an immovable or movable property collateral, 
institutions should ensure that the valuation of the collateral is carried out accurately at the 
point of origination. Institutions should set out internal policies and procedures for valuation 
of collateral. These policies and procedures should specify the valuation approaches to be used 
by a valuer and the use of advanced statistical models for each type of collateral. Institutions 
should ensure that these approaches are prudent and proportionate to the type and potential 
values of the collateral and in relation to the credit agreements, and are in line with the credit 
risk policies and procedures and conditions set out in Section 7.4. 
207. 
Institutions should ensure that the property collateral is valued in accordance with 
applicable international, European and national standards, such as the International Valuation 
Standards Council, the European Group of Valuers’ Associations European Valuation Standards 
and the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors standards. 
208. 
When applicable, institutions should take into account ESG factors affecting the value of 
the collateral, for example the energy efficiency of buildings. 
7.1.1 
Immovable property collateral 
209. 
At the point of origination, institutions should ensure that the value of all immovable 
property collateral for loans to consumers and micro, small, medium-sized and large 
enterprises is assessed by an internal or external valuer using full visit with internal and external 
assessment of the property. 
210. 
As a derogation from paragraph 209, for the purposes of a valuation of residential real 
estate in well-developed and mature property markets, the value may be assessed by means 
of a desktop valuation, carried out by an internal or external valuer and supported by advanced 
statistical models. The valuer remains responsible for the valuation, while the advanced 
statistical models should be used as supporting tools, meeting the conditions set out in 
Section 7.4, and including a confidence measure to indicate the robustness of the value 
proposal and other relevant property-specific information. In this case, the value proposal 
should be assessed, reviewed and approved by the internal or external valuer, who should 
understand all inputs and assumptions considered in the model. If the confidence measure in 
the supporting advanced statistical model indicates low robustness, and/or other property-
specific information gives rise to uncertainty about the value proposal, the valuer should 
choose a valuation method other than desktop valuation. 

PDF File: EBA GL 2020 06 Final Report on GL on loan origination and monitoring.pdf
Page 54:
FINAL REPORT – GUIDELINES ON LOAN ORIGINATION AND MONITORING 
 
 
54 
211. 
When institutions use external valuers, they should establish a panel (a list) of accepted 
external valuers. The composition of the panel of valuers should ensure that valuers have 
relevant expertise in relevant segments of the property sector. 
212. 
Institutions should ensure that the valuers provide an impartial, clear, transparent and 
objective valuation, and each valuation should have a final report providing the necessary 
information on the valuation process and property. The valuation report should clearly state 
who ordered the valuation and that the valuation has been requested for the purposes of loan 
application, renewal or contractual adjustments, or in the case of structural changes. Valuation 
should be carried out (internal valuation) or ordered (external valuation) by the institution or a 
collateral agent (in the case of syndicated loans), unless it is subject to a request from the 
borrower. 
213. 
At the end of the valuation process, institutions should ensure that they have obtained, for 
each property collateral, a clear and transparent valuation report documenting all elements 
and parameters that determine the value of the collateral, including all the information 
necessary and sufficient for easy understanding of these elements and parameters, in 
particular: 
a. the reference value of the collateral; 
b. the approaches, methodology and key parameters and assumptions that have been 
used to assess the value; 
c. a description of the collateral, including its current use or multiple uses if applicable, 
and the property type and quality, including age and state of preservation; 
d. a description of the location of the collateral, the local market conditions and the 
liquidity; 
e. the legal and actual attributes of the collateral; 
f. any known circumstances that may affect the value in the short term, including drawing 
attention to and commenting on any issues affecting the degree of certainty or 
uncertainty. 
214. 
Institutions should critically review the valuation they receive, from the valuer, in particular 
focusing on aspects such as comprehensibility (whether the approaches and assumptions are 
clear and transparent), the prudence of assumptions (e.g. as regards cash flow and discount 
rates), and the clear and reasonable identification of comparable properties used as a value 
benchmark. 
7.1.2 
Movable property collateral 
215. 
At the point of origination, institutions should ensure that the value of all movable property 
collateral is assessed through an appropriate and prudent approach that is proportionate to 
the nature, type and complexity of the collateral, by an internal or external valuer, appropriate 
advanced statistical models meeting the conditions set out in Section 7.4 or other standard 

PDF File: EBA GL 2020 06 Final Report on GL on loan origination and monitoring.pdf
Page 55:
FINAL REPORT – GUIDELINES ON LOAN ORIGINATION AND MONITORING 
 
 
55 
methods, such as indexation, taking into account the market value as referred to in 
Article 229(3) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013. 
216. 
When applicable, institutions should set out, in their policies and procedures, approaches 
for the purposes of this valuation, and specify internal thresholds and limits that require an 
individual valuation of movable property collateral at the point of origination to be performed 
by a valuer. 
217. 
When institutions use external valuers, they should establish a panel (selection) of 
accepted external valuers, covering specific property that is being used as collateral, that is 
relevant to the lending activities of the institution as well as the location of these activities. This 
panel of experts should be used for the valuation of large and complex movable property 
collateral, such as vessels, aircraft and plant machinery. 
218. 
For movable property collateral that is subject to an individual valuation by a valuer, 
institutions should ensure that they have obtained a clear and transparent valuation report 
documenting all elements and parameters that determine the value of collateral, as outlined in 
paragraph 213. 
219. 
For movable property subject to a valuation by statistical models, institutions should 
ensure that they have obtained a clear and transparent model outcome, specifying the value 
of the collateral. Institutions should understand the methodologies, key parameters, 
assumptions and limitations of the models used. 
220. 
Institutions should have adequate IT processes, systems and capabilities in place and 
sufficient and accurate data for the purposes of any statistical model-based valuation. 
7.2 Monitoring and revaluation 
7.2.1 
Immovable property collateral 
221. 
When monitoring property values as laid down in Article 208(3) of Regulation (EU) 
No 575/2013, institutions should, for the purposes of these guidelines, also set up policies and 
procedures specifying the approach and the frequency of monitoring of immovable property 
collateral. These policies and procedures should account, when relevant, for the following 
elements: 
a. the type of property; 
b. the credit quality of the loan secured by property; 
c. the development status of the property; 
d. the value of the property; 
e. assumptions made in the appraisal; 
f. changes in market conditions. 

PDF File: EBA GL 2020 06 Final Report on GL on loan origination and monitoring.pdf
Page 56:
FINAL REPORT – GUIDELINES ON LOAN ORIGINATION AND MONITORING 
 
 
56 
222. 
Institutions should set out appropriate frequencies for monitoring the value of the 
collateral, considering the type and value of the collateral at origination, and, in relation to the 
credit agreement, consider the following: 
a. the frequency of monitoring of properties and parts in development, e.g. unfinished 
buildings, is higher than that of similar finished properties and parts; 
b. the frequency of monitoring of properties and parts with a high carrying amount or 
with a high LTV ratio is higher than that of similar properties and parts with a low 
carrying amount or with a low LTV ratio;  
c. the frequency of monitoring of loans secured by immovable property or parts of the 
property with lower credit quality is higher than that of similar loans secured by 
immovable property or parts of the property with higher credit quality. 
223. 
Institutions should ensure that any indices and statistical models used to monitor the value 
of the collateral are sufficiently granular and that the methodology is appropriate for the type 
of asset and lending product and based on a sufficient time series of observed empirical 
evidence of previous transactions and appraisals of the collateral or similar collateral. 
224. 
Institutions should have policies and procedures for the revaluation of immovable property 
collateral, specifying the approaches to revaluation (e.g. desktop valuation, drive-by valuation, 
full visit with internal and external assessment of the property, statistical models) for different 
types of immovable property collateral, ensuring that the approach or combination of 
approaches is prudent and proportionate to the type and potential values of the collateral and 
in relation to the credit agreements. Furthermore, institutions should set out specific triggers 
(e.g. a change in the assumptions made in the appraisals), indicating when monitoring leads to 
revaluation or collateral needs revaluation. 
225. 
When the conditions for a review in accordance with Article 208(3)(b) of Regulation (EU) 
No 575/2013 are met, institutions should update the value of the immovable property 
collateral by means of a revaluation carried out by a valuer who is potentially supported by 
appropriate advanced statistical models that meet the conditions set out in Section 7.4 and 
account for individual characteristics of the property and geographical area. Institutions should 
not use these models as the sole means of the revaluation. 
226. 
When the conditions for a review in accordance with Article 208(3)(b) of Regulation (EU) 
No 575/2013 are not met, institutions may update the value of the immovable property 
collateral by means of either a revaluation carried out by a valuer or appropriate statistical 
models that meet the conditions set out in Section 7.4 and account for the individual 
characteristics of the property and geographical area. 
 
 

PDF File: EBA GL 2020 06 Final Report on GL on loan origination and monitoring.pdf
Page 57:
FINAL REPORT – GUIDELINES ON LOAN ORIGINATION AND MONITORING 
 
 
57 
7.2.2 
Movable property collateral 
227. 
For the monitoring of movable property collateral, institutions may rely on appropriate 
statistical models and indices. For the revaluation of movable property collateral, institutions 
may rely on assessment by valuers, statistical models and indices. 
228. 
Institutions should, in their policies and procedures, set out approaches to using a valuer 
or statistical models, define the approach (e.g. desktop valuation, drive-by valuation, internal 
and external assessment of the property) that is most suitable for the specific type of collateral 
for the revaluations done by the valuers, and set out the frequency of monitoring and 
revaluation of movable property collateral. 
229. 
Institutions’ policies and procedures should include, when applicable, criteria for individual 
monitoring of the value and revaluation of the movable property collateral by a valuer who 
possesses the necessary qualifications, ability and experience. Proportionate to the type, 
nature and complexity of the movable property collateral, such as aircraft, shipping, physical 
plant and machinery, these criteria should be related, at least, to the value of the movable 
property collateral during the origination phase, the lifespan, the condition of tangible assets, 
such as depreciation and maintenance, the necessity of physical inspection and certification. 
230. 
Institutions should have adequate IT processes, systems, capabilities and sufficient data for 
the purposes of any statistical model-based or index-based revaluation. 
7.3 Criteria for valuers 
231. 
Institutions should ensure that a valuer carrying out the valuation or revaluation tasks: 
a. is professionally competent and meets any national or international requirements and 
accepted professional standards that apply to the valuer or for carrying out a particular 
valuation assignment; 
b. has the appropriate technical skills and experience to perform the assignment; 
c. has the necessary knowledge, i.e. knowledge of the subject of the valuation, the 
relevant property market and the purpose of the valuation; 
d. is independent from the credit decision process. 
232. 
Institutions should ensure that the fee or the salary of the valuer and the result of the 
valuation are not linked in a way that creates a conflict of interest. 
233. 
Institutions should assess the performance of the valuers, in particular the accuracy of the 
valuations provided, e.g. by backtesting on the value of the collateral through advanced 
statistical models. As part of such assessments, institutions should also look at the 
concentration of valuations performed by and fees paid to specific valuers. 

PDF File: EBA GL 2020 06 Final Report on GL on loan origination and monitoring.pdf
Page 58:
FINAL REPORT – GUIDELINES ON LOAN ORIGINATION AND MONITORING 
 
 
58 
234. 
In order to mitigate any conflict of interest sufficiently, institutions should take reasonable 
steps, e.g. via contractual terms, to ensure that valuers who are going to carry out the actual 
appraisal of a given property and their first-degree relatives meet all of the following 
conditions: 
a. they are not involved in the loan application, assessment, decision or administration; 
b. they are not guided or influenced by the borrower’s creditworthiness; 
c. they do not have an actual or potential conflict of interest regarding the property in 
question, the valuation process and the result of the valuation; 
d. they do not have any direct or indirect interest in the property; 
e. they are not related to either the buyer or the seller of the property. 
235. 
Institutions should ensure an adequate rotation of valuers and define the number of 
sequential individual valuations of the same property that can be performed by the same 
valuer. Any further revaluations beyond this number should result in the rotation of the valuer, 
resulting in the appointment of either a different internal valuer or a different external valuer. 
7.4 Criteria for advanced statistical models for valuation 
236. 
Institutions should set out, in their policies and procedures, the criteria for using advanced 
statistical models for the purposes of valuation, revaluation and monitoring the values of 
collateral. These policies and procedures should account for such models’ proven track record, 
property-specific variables considered, the use of minimum available and accurate information, 
and models’ uncertainty. 
237. 
Institutions should ensure that the advanced statistical models used are: 
a. property and location specific at a sufficient level of granularity (e.g. postcode for 
immovable property collateral); 
b. valid and accurate, and subject to robust and regular backtesting against the actual 
observed transaction prices; 
c. based on a sufficiently large and representative sample, based on observed transaction 
prices; 
d. based on up-to-date data of high quality. 
238. 
When using these advanced statistical models, institutions are ultimately responsible for 
the appropriateness and performance of the models, and the valuer remains responsible for 
the valuation that is made using an advanced statistical model. Institutions should understand 
their methodology, input data and assumptions of the models used. Institutions should ensure 
that the documentation of models is up to date. 

PDF File: EBA GL 2020 06 Final Report on GL on loan origination and monitoring.pdf
Page 59:
FINAL REPORT – GUIDELINES ON LOAN ORIGINATION AND MONITORING 
 
 
59 
239. 
Institutions should have adequate IT processes, systems and capabilities in place and 
sufficient and accurate data for the purposes of any statistical model-based valuation or 
revaluation of collateral. 
 
 

PDF File: EBA GL 2020 06 Final Report on GL on loan origination and monitoring.pdf
Page 60:
FINAL REPORT – GUIDELINES ON LOAN ORIGINATION AND MONITORING 
 
 
60 
8. Monitoring framework 
8.1 General provisions for the credit risk monitoring framework 
240. 
Institutions should have a robust and effective monitoring framework, supported by an 
adequate data infrastructure, to ensure that information regarding their credit risk exposures, 
borrowers and collateral is relevant and up to date, and that the external reporting is reliable, 
complete, up to date and timely. 
241. 
The monitoring framework should enable institutions to manage and monitor their credit 
risk exposures in line with their credit risk appetite, strategy, policies and procedures at 
portfolio and, when relevant and material, individual exposure levels. 
242. 
Institutions should ensure that the credit risk monitoring framework is well defined and 
documented, is integrated into the institutions’ risk management and control frameworks, and 
allows all credit exposures to be followed throughout their life cycle. 
243. 
Institutions should consider, in the design and implementation of their credit risk 
monitoring framework, that: 
a. the framework and data infrastructure provide the capability to gather and 
automatically compile data regarding credit risk without undue delay and with little 
reliance on manual processes; 
b. the framework and data infrastructure allow the generation of granular risk data that 
is compatible and used for the institution’s own risk management purposes but can 
also meet the requirements of the competent authorities for regular prudential and 
statistical reporting, as well as for supervisory stress testing and crisis management 
purposes; 
c. the framework and data infrastructure ensure effective monitoring of all credit 
exposures and collateral, and allow the credit decision-making process to be followed; 
d. the framework and data infrastructure ensure that institutions maintain an appropriate 
time series of reporting for current exposures, new types of lending and early warning 
indicators (EWIs) over their credit risk planning horizon. 
244. 
The monitoring process should be based on a principle of follow-up action to support and 
result in a regular and informed feedback loop, to inform the setting/review of credit risk 
appetite, policies and limits. 
245. 
The credit risk monitoring framework should cover the following: 
a. the payment behaviour of borrowers, including any deviations from the requirements 
of credit agreements, including late, missed or partial payments; 
b. credit risk associated with both the borrower and the transaction in relation to: 

PDF File: EBA GL 2020 06 Final Report on GL on loan origination and monitoring.pdf
Page 61:
FINAL REPORT – GUIDELINES ON LOAN ORIGINATION AND MONITORING 
 
 
61 
i. individual credit exposures and loss given default, when applicable; 
ii. individual borrowers, including their exposure value, probability of default (PD) 
and credit rating, when applicable; 
iii. group of connected clients; 
iv. portfolio; 
c. credit risk per geographical location and economic sector of ultimate exposure, when 
applicable; 
d. impairments, reversals of impairments, write-offs and other decisions regarding value 
adjustments for a credit exposure. 
246. 
The monitoring framework and data infrastructure should allow institutions to follow the 
credit decision-making process, including the monitoring and reporting of all credit decisions, 
exceptions from the credit policies, and escalations to the higher levels of credit decision-
makers. To this end, within the monitoring framework, institutions should ensure the 
implementation and application of relevant key risk indicators that are asset type or portfolio 
level specific, to determine the ongoing evolving credit risk profile of the portfolios and 
institution. 
247. 
Institutions should ensure that the credit risk monitoring framework and data 
infrastructure also enable a single customer view. 
248. 
As part of credit risk monitoring and reporting, institutions should identify the relevant 
drivers of its aggregate credit risk as well as the credit risk in its portfolios and sub-portfolios, 
taking into account macroeconomic (including demographic) factors and the fact that credit 
risk drivers may change over time. Credit risk drivers should be measured, analysed and 
monitored, and the credit risk management function should report regularly the outcome of 
the analysis to the management body. 
249. 
When monitoring credit risk, institutions should have appropriate methodologies and 
practices, allowing the aggregation of credit risk exposures in business lines, portfolios, sub-
portfolios, products, industries and geographical segments, and support the identification of 
credit risk concentrations. Institutions should ensure that credit risk data and data 
infrastructure meet the following requirements: 
a. depth and breadth so that they cover all the significant risk factors — this should allow, 
inter alia, exposures to be grouped together in terms of shared credit risk 
characteristics, such as the institutional sector to which the borrower belongs, the 
purpose of the transaction and the geographical location of the borrower/collateral, so 
as to enable an aggregate analysis that allows the identification of the entity’s exposure 
to these significant risk factors; 
b. accuracy, integrity, reliability and timeliness of data; 

PDF File: EBA GL 2020 06 Final Report on GL on loan origination and monitoring.pdf
Page 62:
FINAL REPORT – GUIDELINES ON LOAN ORIGINATION AND MONITORING 
 
 
62 
c. consistency, being based on common sources of information and uniform definitions 
of the concepts used for credit risk management and, when possible, accounting; 
d. traceability, so that the source of the information can be identified. 
250. 
Institutions should ensure that operational metrics relating to credit risk governance are 
appropriate for their credit profile and applied proportionately. This includes any changes in 
the definitions of underlying lending metrics, material changes to rating scales or systems or 
credit risk policies/frameworks that help define/measure credit risk, and changing/altering 
product terms to avoid breaches of policy or exceptions. 
8.2 Monitoring of credit exposures and borrowers 
251. 
As part of the monitoring of credit exposures and borrowers, institutions should monitor 
all outstanding amounts and limits, and whether the borrower is meeting repayment 
obligations, as laid down in the credit agreement, and is in line with the conditions set at the 
point of credit granting, such as adherence to credit metrics and covenants. 
252. 
Institutions should also monitor whether the borrower and collateral are in line with the 
credit risk policies and conditions set at the point of credit granting, e.g. whether the value of 
collateral and other credit enhancement techniques are maintained, whether any applicable 
covenants are maintained, and whether there has been a negative development in these 
factors or in other factors that affect the risk profile of the borrower and/or credit facilities. 
253. 
Institutions should continuously monitor and assess the quality of credit exposures and the 
financial situation of borrowers, to ensure that subsequent changes in credit risk, in respect of 
the initial recognition of the lending exposures, can be identified and quantified. 
254. 
The ongoing monitoring should be based on internal information regarding the credit 
facilities and borrowers’ payment practices, as well as the use of external sources (e.g. credit 
bureaux, directly from the borrower), when relevant. 
255. 
In addition, institutions should also monitor concentration measures against the values 
specified in their credit risk appetite, policies and procedures, including, where relevant, by 
product, geography, industry, collateral features (type, location), and quality of portfolios, sub-
portfolios and exposures. 
256. 
Institutions engaged in syndicating leveraged transactions should implement internal 
standards and monitoring functions for these activities. Institutions should identify transactions 
subject to failed syndications — that is, transaction that were not syndicated within 90 days 
following the commitment date. Institutions should establish a dedicated framework to deal 
with these ‘hung transactions’ in terms of holding strategy, booking and accounting practices, 
regulatory classification and subsequent capital requirements calculation. 
 
 

PDF File: EBA GL 2020 06 Final Report on GL on loan origination and monitoring.pdf
Page 63:
FINAL REPORT – GUIDELINES ON LOAN ORIGINATION AND MONITORING 
 
 
63 
8.3 Regular credit review of borrowers 
257. 
Institutions should also perform regular credit reviews of borrowers that are at least 
medium-sized or large enterprises, with a view to identifying any changes in their risk profile, 
financial position or creditworthiness compared with the criteria and the assessment at the 
point of loan origination, as well as reviewing and updating any relevant internal credit 
rating/scoring. 
258. 
The review process and frequency should be specific and proportionate to the type and risk 
profile of the borrower and the type, size and complexity of the credit facility, and should be 
specified in relevant policies and procedures. Institutions should carry out more frequent 
reviews if they identify a deterioration in the credit and asset quality. The overall credit risk 
monitoring framework and data infrastructure should allow institutions to verify that regular 
credit reviews have been performed in accordance with the credit risk policies and procedures, 
and for the identification of any outliers/exceptions to be flagged for follow up. 
259. 
To this end, institutions should also, if appropriate, periodically update relevant financial 
information on the borrower and assess the new information against the creditworthiness 
assessment criteria established in accordance with Section 4.3 of these guidelines. The 
collection and assessment of this information should support the institution in recognising the 
early warning signs of declining credit quality. 
260. 
Institutions should carry out periodic reviews for the purposes of the assessment of the 
borrower’s risk of default and the potential need for the migration between risk categories and 
grades. 
261. 
Borrowers’ credit reviews should include an assessment of existing debt and borrowers’ 
sensitivity to external factors, such as foreign exchange rate volatility, if relevant, that may 
affect the size of debt and repayment capacity, also in line with the sensitivity analysis 
requirements, as specified in Section 5.2.6. 
262. 
Institutions should assess risks associated with the refinancing of existing debt, monitoring 
loans with bullet/balloon repayment terms separately from other loans on a regular basis. They 
should analyse potential effects on a borrower’s inability to roll over/refinance existing debt, 
and include inter alia a forward-looking macroeconomic outlook and access to capital markets 
as well as other types of debt structures. Institutions should closely monitor the borrowers’ 
ability to repay or refinance their debts throughout a loan’s lifecycle and not just when the 
borrower is approaching the end of a loan’s term. 
263. 
A regular credit risk review should take into consideration both the individual and the total 
risk profile of the exposure, including relevant macroeconomic factors and specific economic 
sectors or activities and how the repayment capacity may be affected by these factors. 
264. 
If applicable, institutions should also review guarantors under the credit facility agreement. 
In addition to the assessment of the guarantor’s continued creditworthiness, an analysis of 
effectiveness of a guarantee should also take into account the enforceability and the time 
needed to realise the guarantee. 

PDF File: EBA GL 2020 06 Final Report on GL on loan origination and monitoring.pdf
Page 64:
FINAL REPORT – GUIDELINES ON LOAN ORIGINATION AND MONITORING 
 
 
64 
265. 
In addition to monitoring credit and financial metrics, institutions should take into account 
information related to qualitative factors that could have a relevant influence on the repayment 
of a loan. These factors could include information on the quality of management, 
agreements/disagreements among owners, an owner’s commitment to the borrower, forecast 
market growth, a company’s pricing power, a cost structure and flexibility of costs, the trend, 
size and nature of capital expenditure and research and development expenditure, and the 
allocation between debt holders and servicers within the consolidated group of institutions. 
8.4 Monitoring of covenants 
266. 
Where relevant and applicable to specific credit agreements, institutions should monitor 
and follow up on the requirements of collateral insurance, in accordance with the credit 
agreements or requirements of credit facilities. 
267. 
Where applicable, institutions should monitor borrowers’ adherence to the covenants 
agreed in the credit agreements. The borrower’s adherence to covenants, as well as the timely 
delivery of covenant compliance certificates, where applicable, should be utilised as early 
warning tools. Early detection of deviations is key to protecting the institution’s position 
towards the borrower and other possible creditors involved. The ongoing monitoring of 
financial covenants should include all relevant ratios specified in the covenants (e.g. net 
debt/EBITDA, interest coverage ratio, debt service coverage ratio (DSCR). 
268. 
Institutions should also monitor non-financial covenants not only by collecting the 
covenant certificate, where applicable, but also by other means, e.g. through close contact with 
the borrower by the client executive. 
8.5 Use of early warning indicators/watch lists in credit 
monitoring 
269. 
As part of their monitoring framework, institutions should develop, maintain and regularly 
evaluate relevant quantitative and qualitative EWIs that are supported by an appropriate IT and 
data infrastructure that would allow the timely detection of increased credit risk in their 
aggregate portfolio as well as in portfolios, sub-portfolios, industries, geographies and 
individual exposures. 
270. 
The EWIs should have defined trigger levels set with regard to the levels specified in credit 
risk appetite, strategy and credit risk policies, and have assigned escalation procedures, 
including assigned responsibilities for the follow-up actions. These escalation procedures 
should also include choosing exposures or borrowers for special monitoring — a watch list. 
271. 
The EWI framework should contain a description of the relevance of the indicators in 
relation to the characteristics of transactions and borrower types, or for homogeneous groups 
of portfolios, when appropriate. 
272. 
On identifying a triggered EWI event at the level of an individual exposure, portfolio, sub-
portfolio or borrower group, institutions should apply more frequent monitoring and, when 

PDF File: EBA GL 2020 06 Final Report on GL on loan origination and monitoring.pdf
Page 65:
FINAL REPORT – GUIDELINES ON LOAN ORIGINATION AND MONITORING 
 
 
65 
necessary, consider placing them on a watch list and undertaking predefined measures and 
mitigation actions. Monitoring this watch list should lead to specific reports being regularly 
reviewed by the head of the risk management function, the heads of functions involved in 
credit granting and the management body. 
273. 
When the actions include interaction with the borrower, institutions should have regard to 
their individual circumstances. The level of contact and communication with the borrower 
during payment difficulties should be commensurate to the information requirements, as 
defined in the EBA Guidelines on arrears and foreclosure. 
274. 
As part of their ongoing monitoring of credit risk, institutions should consider the following 
credit quality deterioration signals: 
a. negative macroeconomic events (including but not limited to economic development, 
changes in legislation and technological threats to an industry) affecting the future 
profitability of an industry, a geographical segment, a group of borrowers or an 
individual corporate borrower, as well as the increased risk of unemployment for 
groups of individuals; 
b. known adverse changes in the financial position of borrowers, such as a significant 
increase in debt levels or significant increases in debt service ratios; 
c. a significant drop in turnover or, in general, in recurring cash flow (including the loss of 
a major contract/client/tenant); 
d. significant narrowing of operating margins or income; 
e. a significant deviation in actual earnings from the forecast or a significant delay in the 
business plan of a project or an investment; 
f. changes in the credit risk of a transaction that would cause the terms and conditions to 
be significantly different if the transaction were newly originated or issued at the 
reporting date (such as increased amounts of required collateral or guarantees, or a 
higher recurring income coverage of the borrower); 
g. an actual or expected significant decrease in the main transaction’s external credit 
rating, or in other external market indicators of credit risk for a particular transaction 
or similar transaction with the same expected life; 
h. changes in the conditions of access to markets, a worsening in financing conditions or 
known reductions in financial support provided by third parties to the borrower; 
i. 
a slowdown in the business or adverse tendencies in the operations of the borrower 
that may cause a significant change in the borrower’s ability to meet its debt 
obligations; 

PDF File: EBA GL 2020 06 Final Report on GL on loan origination and monitoring.pdf
Page 66:
FINAL REPORT – GUIDELINES ON LOAN ORIGINATION AND MONITORING 
 
 
66 
j. 
a significant increase in economic or market volatility that may have a negative impact 
on the borrower; 
k. for transactions secured with collateral, a significant worsening of the ratio of their 
amount to the value of the collateral due to unfavourable developments in the value 
of the collateral, or no change or an increase in the outstanding amount due to the 
payment terms established (such as extended principal payment grace periods, rising 
or flexible instalments, extended terms); 
l. 
a significant increase in credit risk on other transactions of the same borrower or 
significant changes in the expected payment behaviour of the borrower, when known; 
m. a significant increase in credit risk due to an increase in the difficulties of the group to 
which the borrower belongs, such as residents of a specific geographical area, or 
significant unfavourable developments in the performance of the borrower’s sector of 
economic activity or increased difficulties in the group of related borrowers to which 
the borrower belongs; 
n. known legal action that may significantly affect the borrower’s financial position; 
o. the late delivery of a certificate of adherence, a waiver request or a breach with respect 
to the covenants, at least regarding the financial covenants, if applicable; 
p. negative institution-internal credit grade/risk class migrations in the aggregate credit 
portfolio or in specific portfolios/segments; 
q. an actual or expected internal credit rating/risk classification downgrade for the 
transaction or borrower or a decrease in behavioural scoring used to assess credit risk 
internally; 
r. concerns raised in the reports by the external auditors of the institution or borrower; 
s. one or more borrower-related facilities 30 days past due. 
8.5.1 
Follow-up and escalation process on triggered EWIs 
275. 
When an EWI has been triggered for closer monitoring and further investigation, 
immediate action should be taken in accordance with the institution’s policies and procedures, 
as provided in Section 4.3 of these guidelines. The designated functions should perform an 
analysis in order to assess the severity of the triggered event and to propose suitable action 
and follow-up. This analysis should, without undue delay, be presented to the relevant credit 
decision-makers designated in the policy and procedures. 
276. 
Relevant credit decision-makers should, based on the abovementioned analysis and other 
relevant accessible information, decide on the appropriate next steps. The decision should be 

PDF File: EBA GL 2020 06 Final Report on GL on loan origination and monitoring.pdf
Page 67:
FINAL REPORT – GUIDELINES ON LOAN ORIGINATION AND MONITORING 
 
 
67 
documented and should be communicated to relevant parts of the institution for action and 
follow-up. 
277. 
Triggering EWIs should lead to an increased frequency in the reviewing process, including 
discussions and decisions by credit decision-makers, and more intense information gathering 
from the borrower. The information gathered should be sufficient to support more frequent 
credit reviews of the borrowers. 
 
 

PDF File: EBA GL 2020 06 Final Report on GL on loan origination and monitoring.pdf
Page 68:
FINAL REPORT – GUIDELINES ON LOAN ORIGINATION AND MONITORING 
 
 
68 
Annex 1 — Credit-granting criteria 
This annex provides a set of criteria to be considered in the design and documentation of credit-
granting criteria, in accordance with these guidelines. 
Lending to consumers 
1. Customer acceptance criteria, i.e. customer types, customer age limits, customer credit record 
2. Definition of acceptable income 
3. Minimum requirements for collateral 
4. Minimum requirements for guarantees 
5. Maximum loan amounts 
6. Maximum loan maturities 
7. Amortisation requirements (including interest rate type for the loans) 
8. Risk-based limits (concentration, type of product, etc.) 
9. Acceptable loan-to-value ratio limits (for secured lending) 
10. Acceptable loan-to-income ratio limits 
11. Acceptable debt-to-income ratio limits 
12. Acceptable income-to-total-credit-obligation ratio limits (including for gross income, income 
after taxes and premiums, income after financial expenses, income after regular other 
expenses) 
13. Acceptable maximum size of loan to repayment capacity 
14. Compliance policy with macroprudential requirements, when relevant 
Lending to micro, small, medium-sized and large enterprises 
1. Specification of geographical markets and economic sectors 
2. Customer acceptance criteria, i.e. for specific PDs, external ratings, customer types, track 
record, etc. 
3. Minimum requirements for revenues, cash flow and financial projections 
4. Minimum requirements for collateral 
5. Minimum requirements for guarantees and credit enhancements 
6. Minimum requirements for acceptable covenants 
7. Requirements for the drawdown of the loan to the borrower 

PDF File: EBA GL 2020 06 Final Report on GL on loan origination and monitoring.pdf
Page 69:
FINAL REPORT – GUIDELINES ON LOAN ORIGINATION AND MONITORING 
 
 
69 
8. Maximum loan amounts 
9. Appropriate limits on partial recourse or non-recourse loans 
10. Maximum loan maturities 
11. Amortisation schedules and standards for the acceptability of and limits on non-amortising 
loans and on the use of interest reserves and cash sweep structures 
12. Risk-based limits (towards concentration, type of product, etc.) 
13. Acceptable loan-to-value ratio limits (for secured lending) 
14. Acceptable debt-servicing coverage ratio limits 
15. Acceptable interest coverage ratio limits 
16. Acceptable EBITDA limits 
17. Acceptable leverage ratio limits 
18. Acceptable debt-to-equity ratio limits 
19. Acceptable loan-to-cost ratio limits 
20. Acceptable cash-flow-to-debt-service ratio limits 
21. Acceptable return on equity ratio limits 
22. Acceptable capitalisation rate (net operating income/market value) limits 
23. Standards to address and mitigate risks associated with environmental risk 
24. Compliance policy with macroprudential requirements, when relevant 
Commercial real estate lending 
In addition to the general criteria for lending to micro, small, medium-sized and large enterprises 
specified above, institutions should specify the following product type-specific criteria: 
1. Specific forms of CRE that an institution intends to finance (office, retail, industrial and multi-
family residential, which is not owned and occupied by households; it can be defined as land, 
and the building(s) on it, that generates profit or income from capital gains or rents) 
2. The minimum levels of equity to be provided by the borrower and the market value of the CRE 
mortgaged property 
3. Risk-based limits for lending for speculative development lending 
4. Standards to assess the various stages of the CRE development/construction in relation to the 
loan drawdown 
5. Minimum standards regarding requirements for performance and payment bonds and title 
insurance 

PDF File: EBA GL 2020 06 Final Report on GL on loan origination and monitoring.pdf
Page 70:
FINAL REPORT – GUIDELINES ON LOAN ORIGINATION AND MONITORING 
 
 
70 
6. Minimum standards to ensure a minimum level of oversight of the construction via a contracted 
presence and an on-site visit of suitable experienced professionals, e.g. architects, quantity 
surveyors and building site managers 
7. Minimum standards to effectively assess the suitability and experience of any contractors or 
material suppliers 
8. Minimum standards for pre-leasing/pre-selling requirements for CRE 
Shipping finance 
In addition to the general criteria for lending to micro, small, medium-sized and large enterprises 
specified above, institutions should specify the following product type-specific criteria: 
1. The purpose of the finance (i.e. shipbuilding, purchase, operating) 
2. The type of financing (mortgage-backed loans, newbuilding financing, unsecured/corporate 
loans, mezzanine, etc.) 
3. Basic terms of the loan agreement (maximum duration based on the life of the vessel), 
maximum contribution, first lien as a rule, own participation depending on the riskiness of the 
finance, etc.) 
4. Minimum requirements for the certificates needed (classification, pollution, safety, etc.) 
5. Minimum requirements for acceptable registries/‘flags’ 
6. Minimum requirements for acceptable classification societies 
 
 

PDF File: EBA GL 2020 06 Final Report on GL on loan origination and monitoring.pdf
Page 71:
FINAL REPORT – GUIDELINES ON LOAN ORIGINATION AND MONITORING 
 
 
71 
Annex 2 — Information and data for the 
creditworthiness assessment 
This annex provides a set of information, data items and evidence to be considered by institutions 
and creditors when collecting information for the purposes of creditworthiness assessment, in 
accordance with these guidelines. When relevant and more appropriate, e.g. when using 
automated models in credit granting, institutions and creditors may use other types/sources of 
information and data of an economic or financial nature that are necessary for the assessment, in 
compliance 
with 
the 
applicable 
legislation 
and 
in 
particular 
Directive 2008/48/EC, 
Directive 2014/17/EU and Regulation (EU) 2016/679. 
A. Lending to consumers 
1. Evidence of identification 
2. Evidence of residence 
3. Where applicable, information on the purpose of the loan 
4. Where applicable, evidence of eligibility for the purposes of the loan 
5. Evidence of employment, including the type, sector, status (e.g. full-time, part-time, contractor, 
self-employed) and duration 
6. Evidence of income or other sources of repayment (including annual bonus, commission, 
overtime, where applicable) covering a reasonable period, including payslips, current bank 
account statements, and audited or professionally verified accounts (for self-employed 
persons) 
7. Information on financial assets and liabilities, e.g. savings account statements and loan 
statements indicating outstanding loan balances 
8. Information on other financial commitments, such as child maintenance, education fees and 
alimonies, if relevant 
9. Information on household composition and dependants 
10. Evidence of tax status 
11. Where applicable, evidence of life insurance for the named borrowers 
12. Where applicable, data from credit registers or credit information bureaux or other relevant 
databases, covering the information on financial liabilities and arrears in payment 
13. Information on the collateral, if any 
14. Evidence of ownership of the collateral 
15. Evidence of the value of the collateral 

PDF File: EBA GL 2020 06 Final Report on GL on loan origination and monitoring.pdf
Page 72:
FINAL REPORT – GUIDELINES ON LOAN ORIGINATION AND MONITORING 
 
 
72 
16. Evidence of insurance of the collateral 
17. Information on guarantees, other credit risk mitigating factors and guarantors, if any 
18. Rental agreement or evidence of potential rental income for buy-to-let loans, if any 
19. Permissions and cost estimates, if applicable, for real estate building and improvement loans 
B. Lending to micro, small, medium-sized and large enterprises 
1. Information on the purpose of the loan 
2. Where relevant, evidence of the purpose of the loan 
3. Financial statements and accompanying notes on single entity and consolidated levels (balance 
sheet, profit or loss, cash flow) covering a reasonable period, audited or professionally verified 
accounts, where applicable 
4. Aged debtor reports/statements 
5. Business plan both for the borrower and in relation to the purpose of the loan 
6. Financial projections (balance sheet, profit or loss, cash flow) 
7. Evidence of tax status and tax liabilities 
8. Data from credit registers or credit information bureaux, covering at least the information on 
financial liabilities and arrears in payment 
9. Information on the borrower’s external credit rating, where applicable 
10. Information on existing covenants and the borrower’s compliance with them, where relevant 
11. Information on major litigations involving the borrower at the time of application 
12. Information on the collateral, if any 
13. Evidence of ownership of the collateral, where applicable 
14. Evidence of the value of the collateral 
15. Evidence of insurance of the collateral 
16. Information on the enforceability of the collateral (in the case of specialised lending, a 
description of the structure and security package of the transaction) 
17. Information on guarantees, other credit risk mitigating factors and guarantors, if any 
18. Information on ownership structure of the borrower for the purposes of AML/CFT 
C. Commercial real estate lending 
In addition to the items specified in Section B above: 
1. Information on rent levels, vacancy and tenants, including contracts for the particular property 
associated with the purpose of the loan 

PDF File: EBA GL 2020 06 Final Report on GL on loan origination and monitoring.pdf
Page 73:
FINAL REPORT – GUIDELINES ON LOAN ORIGINATION AND MONITORING 
 
 
73 
2. Information on the type of property portfolio 
3. Evidence of vacancy and turnover rates for the portfolio, per property type, property age and 
location 
4. Evidence of rent levels per property type, property age and location 
5. Information on major tenants per property type, property age and location 
6. Information on the rationale for the property associated with the loan, supported by a location-
specific review of supply and demand in the market by a reputable estate agent with relevant 
expertise 
7. Evidence of the value of the collateral and separate units of the property collateral, where 
applicable 
D. Real estate development lending 
In addition to the items specified in Section B above: 
1. Evidence of experience in similar projects and similar asset types, e.g. offices, retail and 
industrial 
2. Information on any ongoing project being developed by the borrower 
3. Evidence of planning and building permits 
4. Information on builders, architects, engineers and contractors 
5. Evidence of contracts with contractors and relevant documentation on the development, 
including information on penalties, guarantees and the cost of overruns 
6. Information on the rationale for the development, supported by a location-specific review of 
supply and demand in the market by a reputable estate agent with relevant expertise 
7. Evidence of cost estimates and a timeline for the development, including contingencies for the 
development 
E. Shipping finance 
In addition to the items specified in Section B above: 
1. Evidence of experience in a similar type of vessel and segment 
2. Evidence of ownership of assets with information on the vessels, e.g. name, registration 
number, type, age and size 
3. Information on insurance and classification of assets by a classification society acceptable to 
the institution 
4. Evidence of compliance with safety and environmental regulations governing the shipping 
industry 

PDF File: EBA GL 2020 06 Final Report on GL on loan origination and monitoring.pdf
Page 74:
FINAL REPORT – GUIDELINES ON LOAN ORIGINATION AND MONITORING 
 
 
74 
5. Information, based on market data, on each type of vessel and segment outlooks, e.g. 
geographical location of past and planned future trips 
6. Evidence of off-balance-sheet obligations, such as chartered in vessels and forward freight 
agreement positions 
F. Project finance 
In addition to the items specified in Section B above: 
1. Information on the business plan related to the project 
2. Evidence of experience in similar projects 
3. Information on any ongoing project being developed by the borrower 
4. Evidence of planning and building permits related to the project 
5. Information on builders, architects, engineers and contractors 
6. Evidence of contracts with contractors and relevant documentation on the development, 
including information on penalties, guarantees and the cost of overruns 
7. Information on the rationale for the development, supported by a location-specific review of 
supply and demand in the market by a reputable estate agent with relevant expertise 
8. Evidence of cost estimates and a timeline, including contingencies for the development, 
certified by a qualified and reputable quantity surveyor (or similar) 
 
 
 

PDF File: EBA GL 2020 06 Final Report on GL on loan origination and monitoring.pdf
Page 75:
FINAL REPORT – GUIDELINES ON LOAN ORIGINATION AND MONITORING 
 
 
75 
Annex 3 — Metrics for credit granting 
and monitoring 
This annex provides a set of credit-specific metrics to be considered by institutions and creditors 
when performing creditworthiness assessments and credit risk monitoring, in accordance with 
these guidelines. Where relevant and more appropriate, institutions and creditors may use other 
metrics for that purpose. 
A. Lending to consumers 
1. Loan to income 
2. Loan service to income 
3. Debt to income 
4. Debt service to income 
5. LTV 
B. Lending to micro, small, medium-sized and large enterprises 
6. Equity ratio (shareholders’ equity divided by total assets) 
7. (Long-term) debt-to-equity ratio 
8. EBITDA 
9. Debt yield (net operating income/loan amount) 
10. Interest bearing debt/EBITDA 
11. Enterprise value (sum of market value of common stock, market value of preferred equity, 
market value of debt, minority interest, less cash and investments) 
12. Capitalisation rate (net operating income/market value) 
13. Asset quality 
14. Total debt service coverage ratio (EBITDA) over total debt service 
15. Cash debt coverage ratio (net cash provided by operating activities over the average current 
liabilities of the company within a certain period of time) 
16. Coverage ratio (total current assets divided by total short-term debt) 
17. Future cash flow analysis 
18. Return on assets 
19. Debt service 

PDF File: EBA GL 2020 06 Final Report on GL on loan origination and monitoring.pdf
Page 76:
FINAL REPORT – GUIDELINES ON LOAN ORIGINATION AND MONITORING 
 
 
76 
20. Loan to cost (LTC) 
21. Interest coverage ratio 
22. Return on equity ratio (net income after interest and tax over average shareholders’ equity) 
23. Return on capital employed 
24. Net profit margin 
25. Turnover evolution 
C. Real estate development lending 
26. Fixed-assets-to-equity ratio 
27. LTV 
28. Location and quality of properties 
29. LTC 
30. DSCR for CRE activities 
31. Occupancy rates evolution 
Profitability 
32. Rental income to CRE-related interest expenses 
D. Leveraged finance, asset-based lending and project finance 
33. Value of acquisition goodwill 
34. Ring-fencing 
35. LTV 
36. Adherence to business plan 
37. Leverage ratio (total debt over EBITDA) 
38. Repayment capacity 
E. Shipping finance 
39. Leverage ratio 
40. Rating 
41. Repayment from operating cash flow 
42. Repayment from guarantor 
43. Repayment from vessel’s sale 
44. Outstanding payments 

PDF File: EBA GL 2020 06 Final Report on GL on loan origination and monitoring.pdf
Page 77:
FINAL REPORT – GUIDELINES ON LOAN ORIGINATION AND MONITORING 
 
 
77 
Accompanying documents 
Draft cost-benefit analysis/impact assessment 
As part of the Council’s conclusions on the Action Plan to tackle NPLs in Europe, issued in July 2017, 
the EBA has been mandated to issue detailed guidelines on financial institutions’ loan origination, 
monitoring and internal governance, with a focus on issues such as transparency and borrower’s 
affordability assessment. 
Article 16(2) of the EBA Regulation provides that the EBA should carry out an analysis of ‘the 
potential related costs and benefits’ of any guidelines it develops. This analysis should provide an 
overview of the findings regarding the problem to be dealt with, the solutions proposed and the 
potential impact of these options. 
A. Problem identification 
The negative effects of the high level of NPLs in a substantial number of European countries can 
pose a number of risks to, for example, institutions’ profitability and their lending activities, with 
an impact on the real economy and the financial system in the EU, and altering market perceptions 
of the European banking sector as a whole. 
In addition to economic factors, the persistence of NPLs on institutions’ balance sheets are 
influenced by structural drivers, such as institutions’ lending and monitoring policies, supervisory 
action and transparency of the market for collateral assets28. 
Before the 2008 financial crisis, substandard loan origination practices and weak monitoring played 
an important role in the build-up of NPL stock in a number of Member States. Furthermore, the 
lack of transparency in the market for collateral assets and of standardised valuation approaches 
has hampered confidence in the collateral system, which is essential to lending activities. 
Policy objectives 
The main objective of the guidelines is to improve institutions’ practices and associated governance 
arrangements, processes and mechanisms in credit granting, in order to ensure that institutions 
have robust and prudent approaches to credit risk taking, management and monitoring. In doing 
so, the guidelines aim to ensure that institutions are also prepared for the upcoming challenges in 
the EU banking sector, such as climate change and the transition to a more sustainable economy, 
and developments in technology-enabled innovation. Last but not the least, the guidelines aim to 
ensure that the loans that institutions newly originate remain of high quality while respecting and 
protecting the interests of consumers. Through achieving these objectives, the EBA aims to improve 
the financial stability and resilience of the EU financial system. 
                                                                                                              
28 Report of the FSC Subgroup on Non-Performing Loans (9854/17).  

PDF File: EBA GL 2020 06 Final Report on GL on loan origination and monitoring.pdf
Page 78:
FINAL REPORT – GUIDELINES ON LOAN ORIGINATION AND MONITORING 
 
 
78 
At a more specific level, these guidelines aim to address the identified issues, with a view to 
fostering and monitoring sound credit origination standards, risk management and internal 
governance, to ensure that newly originated loans remain of high quality and to minimise the 
increase in NPL inflows in the future. 
When drafting the present guidelines, the EBA considered several policy options under three main 
areas. 
Scope of application of the guidelines 
Options considered 
Option 1a: These guidelines should apply to new lending only, i.e. loans that have been originated 
after the date of implementation of these guidelines. 
Option 1b: These guidelines should apply to new lending and also to loans that have been 
originated before the date of implementation of the guidelines. 
Baseline scenario 
The current EU legislative framework for institutions’ internal governance procedures for loan 
origination and monitoring consists mainly of Article 74(1) of Directive 2013/36/EU and the EBA 
Guidelines on internal governance. 
The institutions’ current risk management practices, policies, processes and procedures for the 
origination of loans are laid down in Article 18 and Article 20 of Directive 2014/17/EU and the EBA 
Guidelines on creditworthiness assessment (repealed with effect from the date of application of 
these guidelines). Further legislative requirements for credit and counterparty risk are laid down in 
Article 79 of Directive 2013/36/EU. 
Assessment of options and preferred option 
Under Option 1a, the monitoring of the performance of credit facilities and potential underlying 
collateral is based on the current EU legislative framework. The refinancing of existing loans will 
also follow the current standards and will not apply the standards for loan origination outlined in 
these guidelines. 
Under Option 1b, financial institutions will apply these guidelines to all existing loans, their 
refinancing and newly originated loans. 
It is expected that a broader scope of application would imply certain operational costs for 
institutions, such as costs associated with the development of IT and data infrastructure, especially 
for the creditworthiness assessment, and the monitoring of the stock of existing loans falling under 
the scope of application. It is also expected that these costs would be limited, as institutions have 

PDF File: EBA GL 2020 06 Final Report on GL on loan origination and monitoring.pdf
Page 79:
FINAL REPORT – GUIDELINES ON LOAN ORIGINATION AND MONITORING 
 
 
79 
the opportunity to collect the necessary information on specific loan agreements when a new 
contract or an addendum to an existing agreement is signed with the borrower. In terms of 
monitoring the stock of existing loans falling under the scope of application, the guidelines also 
allow a transition period of 3 years for institutions to take necessary steps as they identify gaps in 
their monitoring processes. This approach is also an effective way to tackle the credit quality issues 
on the stock of loans. 
Limiting the scope to new credit facilities is expected to have a negative effect on the effectiveness 
and the consistent application of loan origination standards within and across institutions. This will 
hamper the creation of a level playing field and the convergence of supervisory practices. This 
status can prevail for a long time due to institutions’ refinancing practices and outstanding loans 
with long maturity. 
Option 1b has been retained. 
ESG factors and green lending 
Options considered 
Option 2a: Include ESG factors in risk management policies, credit risk policies and procedures. 
Option 2b: Provide guidance on risk management policies, credit risk policies and procedures 
without considering ESG factors. 
Baseline scenario 
A diverse range of sector-specific market and policy factors has motivated the evolution of the 
sustainable finance agenda, with financial institutions developing methodologies and implementing 
procedures to integrate environmental factors into risk management systems, including customer 
credit and lending evaluations. These developments are coherent with the risk that environmental 
and climate factors pose for financial institutions, as close to 50% of the exposure of euro area 
institutions to risk is directly or indirectly linked to risks stemming from climate change29. 
Approaches to incorporating those risks vary considerably in terms of scope and breadth of factors 
considered, governance and management, and relationship to broader sustainability strategies. 
Further barriers to sustainable finance and, more specifically, green lending are a lack of 
appropriate information flowing between the market and financial institutions and issues of policy 
coherence and regulatory alignment30. 
The Action Plan on sustainable finance adopted by the European Commission aims to address these 
issues. The EBA’s role in achieving this plan has, inter alia, been laid out in the revised banking 
                                                                                                              
29 European Commission Action Plan: Financing sustainable growth, March 2018. 
30 United Nations Environment Programme, Greening the banking system – taking stock of G20 green banking market 
practice, September 2016. 

PDF File: EBA GL 2020 06 Final Report on GL on loan origination and monitoring.pdf
Page 80:
FINAL REPORT – GUIDELINES ON LOAN ORIGINATION AND MONITORING 
 
 
80 
package CRD V (revised CRD/Capital Requirement Regulation, CRR). It mandates the EBA to assess 
the incorporation of ESG risks into the supervisory process (Art. 98 of the amended CRD) and to 
assess the prudential treatment of assets associated with environmental or social objectives 
(Article 50da of the amended CRR). In addition, it requires large institutions to publicly disclose ESG-
related risks they are exposed to. Furthermore, Article 8(1)(a) of the amended EBA Founding 
Regulation specifies that, when carrying out its tasks, the EBA may take into account the integration 
of ESG-related factors. 
Assessment of options and preferred option 
The adoption of ESG factors are expected to create one-off costs for institutions with regard to 
aligning their internal government arrangement or establishing those arrangements to be 
compliant with these guidelines, and will create ongoing costs for monitoring their ESG-related 
activities. In relation to loan origination, these costs will be limited to financial institutions that are 
active (or intend to be active) in green loan origination. 
Supervisors are expected to face incremental costs when amending their practices, such as rules, 
methodologies and manuals, and informing staff members and the sector regarding these changes. 
Including principle-based requirements on the ESG factors at the level of policies and procedures, 
however, will provide an opportunity to promote these practices from the point of origination. They 
will support counteracting the fragmented landscape of approaches on ESG lending, which present 
a barrier to coherence and comparability across institutions. By providing additional clarification on 
climate change associated risks, the guidelines support the creation of a clear understanding of 
green transactions. 
Financial institutions are expected to benefit from the adoption of ESG factors in their loan 
origination practices, as including and monitoring environmental factors will help them to 
streamline the processes developed and to ensure that environmental and social due diligence is 
incorporated into credit decisions. This will help to take those risks adequately into account and 
thereby avoid or mitigate financial losses, reputational risk, and social and environmental harm. 
Furthermore, the disclosure of green performance information by financial institutions and 
borrowers, including total green lending flows and the degree of adoption and implementation of 
core practices, is expected to support system-level monitoring and encourage a level playing field. 
As these guidelines reflect the forthcoming EU policy actions to stimulate sustainable finance, 
compliance with these guidelines is expected to support institutions’ prudent treatment of ESG-
related loans throughout the life cycle of the loan by implementing appropriate standards at the 
initial stage of the loan origination. 
The harmonisation between national-level and EU-level regulatory frameworks positively affects 
the capacity to advance new products. It is thereby expected to contribute to efficient and effective 
cooperation among competent authorities. 

PDF File: EBA GL 2020 06 Final Report on GL on loan origination and monitoring.pdf
Page 81:
FINAL REPORT – GUIDELINES ON LOAN ORIGINATION AND MONITORING 
 
 
81 
Option 2a has been retained. 
Valuation of immovable property collateral 
Options considered 
Option 3a: Use advanced statistical models for the purpose of monitoring of the value of 
immovable property collateral. 
Option 3b: Use advanced statistical models for the purpose of the valuation of immovable property 
collateral for revaluation and monitoring. 
Option 3c: Use advanced statistical models for the purpose of the valuation of immovable property 
collateral at the point of loan origination, for revaluation and monitoring. 
Baseline scenario 
The EU regulatory landscape for immovable property valuation, in the context of loan origination 
and collateral monitoring, currently addresses advanced statistical models under several aspects: 
1) 
MCD — Article 19; Recital (26) 
According to the MCD, valuation needs to meet valuation standards, in particular those 
developed by the International Valuation Standards Committee (IVSC), the European 
Group of Valuers’ Associations (TEGoVA) or the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors 
(RICS). 
2) 
CRR — Article 208(3) and Article 299(1) 
Under the CRR, statistical methods may be used to monitor the value of immovable 
property and identify immovable property that needs revaluation (Article 208(3)). For 
the revaluation of collateral, statistical approaches can further be applied, in cases 
where Article 208(3b) does not apply, i.e. where there is no suspected material decline 
in the value of the immovable property and the loan does not exceed EUR 3 million or 
is less than 5% of the own funds of an institution. When Article 208 (3) does apply, a 
statistical model cannot be used as a sole means of undertaking the review of the 
property valuation. 
3) 
EBA Guidelines on management of non-performing and forborne exposures — 
Chapter 9 
The EBA Guidelines on NPLs state that immovable property valuation should be carried 
out according to applicable international, European and national standards. Valuation 
and revaluation may be supported by statistical models. 
4) 
TEGoVA’s European valuation standards — EVIP 6 
Statistical methods may be used to monitor the value of the property and identify 
property that needs revaluation. The use of these methods is not allowed for the 
valuation at origination. 
 

PDF File: EBA GL 2020 06 Final Report on GL on loan origination and monitoring.pdf
Page 82:
FINAL REPORT – GUIDELINES ON LOAN ORIGINATION AND MONITORING 
 
 
82 
5) 
RICS valuation — global standards — VPS 1 
The Red Book addresses advanced statistical models in relation to the nature and extent 
of the valuer’s work, whereby the valuer’s work can be based on valuation provided by 
advanced statistical models. 
The majority of Member States incorporate property valuation standards into their national 
regulatory framework. In at least seven Member States, additional guidelines apply, which detail 
the property valuation process beyond the EU specifications. The international and European 
valuation guidelines provided by RICS and TEGoVA are explicitly incorporated into more than six of 
these regulatory frameworks. 
Three Member States specifically regulate the use of advanced statistical models. In six other 
Member States, those models are recognised by competent authorities through reviewing or 
revaluating model standards, issuing advanced statistical model-specific guidance or 
acknowledging results provided by those models for regulatory reporting. 
The majority of EU institutions use advanced statistical models for internal portfolio valuation, 
mortgage revaluation and mortgage monitoring. In at least six jurisdictions, advanced statistical 
models are also used to support loan origination. In relation to the immovable property collateral, 
due to the statistical specifications of the models, the use of advanced statistical models is in 
practice restricted to the residential immovable property. 
Assessment of options 
A broader use of an advanced statistical model throughout the life cycle of a loan may be beneficial 
for financial institutions from an internal business perspective, as they can carry out this valuation 
method for a range of valuation activities and thereby benefit from a quick and cost-efficient 
valuation. 
In the future, it is expected that progress in information technology and the development of a large 
property and transaction database will increase the precision of advanced statistical models. A strict 
restriction on the use of those models could hamper development in this market and the overall 
progress of the valuation market. 
However, from a prudential point of view, the use of those models at the stage of loan origination 
may create shortcomings in the risk management, so there must be prudential standards in place 
to ensure the transparency and accuracy of the model outcome. A strict ban on the use of advanced 
statistical models at the point of origination may increase the cost for consumers. 
 
 
 

PDF File: EBA GL 2020 06 Final Report on GL on loan origination and monitoring.pdf
Page 83:
FINAL REPORT – GUIDELINES ON LOAN ORIGINATION AND MONITORING 
 
 
83 
 
Option 3c has been retained and summarised in Table 1. 
Table 1: Use of advanced statistical models for the purpose of valuation of immovable property 
collateral 
Valuation conducted by: 
Initial 
valuation 
Revaluation 
Monitoring 
Art. 208(3) 
applies(a) 
Art. 208(3) does not 
apply(b) 
Valuer 
✔ 
✔ 
✔ 
✔ 
Valuer supported by  
advanced statistical models 
✔ 
✔ 
✔ 
✔ 
Advanced statistical 
models 
 
 
✔ 
✔ 
Other statistical models, 
including indexation 
 
 
✔ 
✔ 
(a)This is whenever the price of the immovable property may have declined materially or for big 
loans of EUR 3 million or 5% of the own funds of the institution. 
(b)This is when there is no ‘suspected’ material decline in the value of the immovable property, 
and the loan does not exceed EUR 3 million or is less than 5% of the own funds of an institution. 
 
 

PDF File: EBA GL 2020 06 Final Report on GL on loan origination and monitoring.pdf
Page 84:
FINAL REPORT – GUIDELINES ON LOAN ORIGINATION AND MONITORING 
 
 
84 
Feedback on the public consultation and on the opinion of the BSG 
The EBA publicly consulted on the draft proposal presented in this paper. The consultation period 
lasted 3 months, from 13 June to 30 September 2019. During this period, the EBA received 77 
responses, of which 64 were published on the EBA website and 13 were treated confidentially. The 
EBA Banking Stakeholder Group (BSG) also provided its opinion, which was published on the EBA 
website. 
This section presents a summary of the key points and comments raised in the consultation, the 
analysis and discussion triggered by these comments, and the actions taken to address them when 
deemed necessary. When several respondents made similar comments on a specific point, the 
comments and the EBA’s analysis are grouped together and included in the section of this paper 
where the EBA considers them most appropriate. All changes to the guidelines that have resulted 
from the assessment of the feedback received from the stakeholders during the public consultation 
are reflected in this document. 
Summary of the BSG opinion 
The BSG was largely supportive of the EBA developing the guidelines and putting a dual focus on 
prudential and consumer protection aspects of loan origination. The BSG stressed that the 
guidelines should apply to new loans originated by all credit providers, including non-banks and 
new entrants. 
One of the biggest areas of concern for the BSG was the application of the principle of 
proportionality and the level of application. The BSG noted the extensively wide scope of the 
guidelines and suggested focusing only on newly originated loans, not setting any new 
requirements for the existing stock of loans, as any information collection and analysis will be too 
burdensome and costly, and encouraging further integration with the requirements of the MCD, 
the CCD and the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), in order to avoid any contradiction of 
the Level 1 legislation. To accommodate a more proportionate approach, the BSG suggested 
revising the language that makes the requirements very prescriptive. 
The BSG requested more flexibility and recognition in the application of the principle of 
proportionality vis-à-vis the risk profile of the borrower, and the nature and complexity of the credit 
facility. Furthermore, the BSG requested for more differentiation in relation to requirements for 
retail and non-retail loans, risk-sensitive and non-risk-sensitive businesses, as well as the materiality 
of portfolios for the institutions. Furthermore, the BSG argued that the guidelines should adopt a 
more proportionate approach to the requirements for collecting data from the borrowers for the 
purposes of borrowers’ creditworthiness assessment and monitoring. The BSG also requested 
clarification on the role and content of annexes in the guidelines, as they do not facilitate current 
market practices, such as portfolio analysis and model-based analysis, which are used for a certain 
group of borrowers and a large amount of small consumer/small and medium-sized enterprise 
(SME) credits. The BSG suggested including the content of the annexes in the guidelines as examples 
for the institutions. 

PDF File: EBA GL 2020 06 Final Report on GL on loan origination and monitoring.pdf
Page 85:
FINAL REPORT – GUIDELINES ON LOAN ORIGINATION AND MONITORING 
 
 
85 
The BSG suggested that the EBA consider extending the deadline for the implementation of the 
guidelines and introducing some phase-in arrangements. The main purpose of this is to allow the 
addressees of the guidelines sufficient time to make necessary arrangements to establish an 
adequate IT structure and provide training for the staff. Furthermore, the delay would also allow 
all other ongoing regulatory developments to be taken into account, including developments in the 
area of sustainable finance. With respect to sustainable finance, the BSG stressed the need to align 
all ESG-related requirements with the relevant upcoming ESG regulatory initiatives and the EBA 
mandates in CRR 2/CRD V and avoid front-loading the future regulatory requirements in these 
guidelines. 
The BSG expressed concerns that the requirements for governance and credit granting are too 
standardised and prescriptive. It is argued that the guidelines do not clarify the difference between 
credit risk and creditworthiness assessment. On this point, the BSG suggested that the guidelines, 
instead of introducing detailed governance requirements that may limit proven and well-
functioning lending activity, should focus more on protecting consumer interests, including 
assessing the suitability of products, protecting consumers from loan sharks and mitigating negative 
consequences of default. The BSG suggested that the EBA emphasise, in the guidelines, the concept 
of responsible lending. 
Furthermore, the BSG made a series of suggestions to improve the consumer protection dimension 
of the guidelines. The suggestions aim to ensure that the institutions’ credit policies and procedures 
and the creditworthiness assessment do not lead to discrimination against borrowers and 
appropriately take into account borrowers’ characteristics (e.g. life expenditure, household 
composition), to ensure that the products are suitable for the borrowers and that loan servicing 
does not induce any undue hardship on the borrowers. 
With respect to creditworthiness assessment, the BSG also suggested that there needs to be a 
clarification in the credit decision-making process between acceptance and refusal thresholds 
linked to default rates. 
The BSG expressed concerns that the section on pricing is detailed and prescriptive, and that the 
requirements set out in the draft guidelines represent interference with business practices and 
decisions. The BSG requested clarification that the relevant section represents a set of best 
practices, as opposed to requirements influencing pricing strategies and decisions. 
The BSG also requested more flexibility and streamlining of the requirements for the monitoring 
framework, as the proposal of the draft guidelines is perceived as overly complex, burdensome and 
not proportionate to the average size of the loan portfolios. Furthermore, the BSG expressed 
concerns that the general monitoring requirements do not adequately reflect the specificities of 
institutions, borrower groups and specific loan products. 
Summary of the key issues and the EBA’s response 
While there was broad support for addressing the topic of loan origination in the wake of the period 
of high levels of NPLs and the EBA’s comprehensive approach in bringing together prudential 

PDF File: EBA GL 2020 06 Final Report on GL on loan origination and monitoring.pdf
Page 86:
FINAL REPORT – GUIDELINES ON LOAN ORIGINATION AND MONITORING 
 
 
86 
regulation and consumer protection dimensions, the respondents expressed several concerns and 
reservations in their comments to the consultation paper. The key concerns are about the following 
key points: the level of detail, the application of proportionality, the implementation timeline and 
the scope of application. 
The level of detail 
Many respondents thought the draft guidelines were broad, in terms of topics covered, and 
prescriptive and put limitations on prevailing industry practices. To this end, respondents requested 
more flexibility in the requirements set out in the guidelines, recognition of different current and 
emerging industry practices and greater proportionality in the application of the guidelines, 
considering that the scope of the guidelines covers a wide range of loans, from small ticket 
consumer credit to lending to large corporates. The respondents also cautioned against creating a 
‘one size fits all’ approach to credit risk taking, decision-making and creditworthiness assessment. 
The application of proportionality 
Respondents not only noted three types of proportionality consideration in the guidelines but also 
requested that additional dimensions be considered, such as the materiality of portfolios, the risk 
profile of the borrower and the risk profile of the portfolio or specific loan. Many respondents 
requested that general proportionality considerations be supplemented with practical examples of 
how the principle of proportionality can be applied in practice. With respect to proportionality in 
the creditworthiness assessment, many have pointed to the idea of having simpler approaches 
when dealing with consumer lending and lending to SMEs, including recognising ongoing 
developments in model-based assessments and credit decisions. Furthermore, the respondents 
asked for the nature of the annexes and the widespread use of the words ‘at least’ throughout the 
text of the guidelines to be clarified. 
The implementation timeline 
Many respondents requested a longer implementation period and/or transitional/phase-in 
arrangements. It was argued that the implementation of the guidelines would be costly and time-
consuming, especially for IT developments and the collection of missing information from 
borrowers. Another argument for the delay was the ongoing and future regulatory developments 
and the need to ensure better consistency between the requirements of the draft guidelines and 
(future) Level 1 regulatory requirements. On this point, respondents suggested waiting for the 
finalisation of the reviews of the MCD and the CCD, in order to ensure consistency with future 
potential changes to the creditworthiness requirements set out in those directives. Respondents 
suggested that the EBA delay the introduction, in these guidelines, of any requirements for 
sustainable finance, green lending and ESG factors as part of credit analysis until the finalisation of 
other planned developments in the policy area, such as at the EU Commission Taxonomy or the 
EBA’s ongoing and future initiatives and mandates. 
 
 

PDF File: EBA GL 2020 06 Final Report on GL on loan origination and monitoring.pdf
Page 87:
FINAL REPORT – GUIDELINES ON LOAN ORIGINATION AND MONITORING 
 
 
87 
The scope of application 
With respect to the scope of application, many respondents suggested applying the guidelines only 
in relation to the loans originated after the application date of the guidelines (and not on 
renegotiated loans originated before the application date but renegotiated after it). Furthermore, 
stakeholders asked for clarification of how the guidelines are expected to apply to leasing and 
factoring. 
Further feedback 
Many respondents provided detailed feedback to specific sections of the draft guidelines. Thus, in 
relation to internal governance requirements, respondents asked for further clarification and 
alignment of the guidelines with the EBA Guidelines on internal governance, in particular with 
regard to points on decision-making, including independence in credit decisions that seemed to be 
too onerous. Respondents also requested the introduction of portfolio dimensions and the 
materiality of portfolios into the requirements for credit risk strategies, credit risk appetite and 
allocation, as well as clarification of how the ‘three lines of defence’ model fits into the process and 
list of tasks specific to the credit-granting process. With respect to the latter, specific concerns have 
been raised about the role of the risk management function in the credit decision-making process 
and blurring the tasks for the first and second lines, in particular, getting early independent risk 
views into the credit decision-making process. Respondents also noted that risk-based 
remuneration for staff working on credit seems to be problematic, especially considering the long-
term credit quality dimension/metrics. 
Respondents also asked for more clarity and guidance on interpretation and supervisory 
expectations in relation to the scope and wording of the requirements for technology-enabled 
innovation (FinTech), allowing for artificial intelligence (AI), big data and scoring models, etc., and 
running in parallel or replacing traditional human analysis of the financial position of the borrowers. 
With respect to the proposed requirements for the creditworthiness assessment, respondents 
requested that the EBA revise the text to emphasise a more proportionate approach to data and 
information collection and creditworthiness assessment, first between small consumer credit and 
SME loans and lending to large corporates, and second between loans to new borrowers and loans 
to known/existing borrowers/customers. Respondents emphasised that the guidelines should also 
recognise different distribution channels, including online banking/products. 
It was pointed out that the requirements for information collection and verification are too 
burdensome and sometimes not justified. Respondents expressed concerns that some of the 
requirements shift borrowers’ responsibilities to institutions, and in some cases institutions are not 
in a position to obtain or verify the information. As for the creditworthiness assessment of micro, 
small, medium-sized and large enterprises, many respondents argued that, while some of the 
requirements, especially those related to financial projections and sensitivity analysis, may be 
appropriate for large corporates, they are not appropriate for SMEs. 

PDF File: EBA GL 2020 06 Final Report on GL on loan origination and monitoring.pdf
Page 88:
FINAL REPORT – GUIDELINES ON LOAN ORIGINATION AND MONITORING 
 
 
88 
Most respondents raised concerns about the section on collateral valuation, in which the guidelines 
restrict the use of advance statistical models/automated valuation for the valuation of immovable 
property collateral at the point of loan origination. Furthermore, respondents requested 
clarification and further elaboration on the definition and scope of immovable and movable 
property collateral, i.e. if the scope includes both when the property is used as principal collateral 
(asset-based lending) and when the borrower provides additional collateral at their discretion to 
strengthen their loan application (security lien). Respondents further raised a number of points in 
relation to the requirements on the rotation of valuers, a panel of experts and the application of 
the proposed requirements for leasing transactions. 
With respect to the proposed requirements for monitoring, respondents stressed that the 
requirements are too burdensome and costly, because they require the monitoring of soft 
information and information that is not currently collected from borrowers. It was also stressed 
that monitoring requirements should not lead to additional supervisory reporting. While 
respondents largely support the approach to early warning indicators, they expressed concerns 
over the idea of having a minimum list of indicators to be monitored. It was also suggested to split 
monitoring requirements by segments (consumers, SMEs, etc.). Respondents also requested more 
clarity on what should be monitored at portfolio level and what at borrower and credit facility 
levels, as well as the focus of monitoring (behavioural aspects — repayment history — vis-a-vis 
monitoring of the financial conditions of a borrower). In relation to the monitoring, some have also 
raised concerns about the interaction of the proposed requirements with data protection rules, in 
particular in relation to the concept of a ‘single customer view’, used in both monitoring and 
creditworthiness assessment. 
The EBA carefully examined all of the comments received (see the feedback table attached to this 
document) and amended the text of the guidelines accordingly. In particular, in response to the 
comments received, the EBA has clarified the scope of application of the guidelines. The EBA also 
extended the implementation period, with a view to giving institutions and competent authorities 
1 year (between the publication of the final report and the application date) for the implementation 
and an additional phase-in period for the collection of missing information from the borrowers for 
credit-monitoring purposes. 
The EBA significantly revised the guidelines and emphasised the principle of proportionality 
throughout. In order to account for the principle of proportionality, the EBA both changed the 
language/wording and restructured the sections. 
First, the EBA revised the role and references to the annexes (e.g. the use of the word ‘at least’), to 
ensure that they are not seen as a list of requirements/parameters against which supervisors 
should assess the institutions. Second, the EBA has split the section of the creditworthiness 
assessment of micro, small, medium-sized and large enterprises and set out a simplified approach 
to the assessment of micro and small enterprises, with significant simplification of the 
requirements. For this purpose, the EBA used the EU Commission’s SME definition. Furthermore, 
the EBA has clarified that the creditworthiness assessment can be done by various means, including 
models, as long as the requirements of these guidelines are met. To this end, the EBA also provided 

PDF File: EBA GL 2020 06 Final Report on GL on loan origination and monitoring.pdf
Page 89:
FINAL REPORT – GUIDELINES ON LOAN ORIGINATION AND MONITORING 
 
 
89 
guidance on the model governance consideration, ensuring that the models used for the purposes 
of creditworthiness assessment and credit decision-making are robust and fit for purpose. 
In the area of internal governance, the EBA has clarified the requirements for credit decision-
making, and also the requirement for the use of FinTech and model governance, to ensure that the 
guidelines are both future proof and technology neutral. The EBA also revised the requirements for 
the credit risk management and control frameworks, to ensure their full alignment with the EBA 
Guidelines on internal governance and to avoid prescribing any specific organisational structures 
that remain the responsibility of the institutions themselves. 
With respect to the loan origination procedures the EBA first clarified the requirements for handling 
information for the purposes of creditworthiness assessment, recognising that, for existing 
customers, information may be already available to the institutions, and then explained the notion 
of verification of information. The text has been thoroughly reviewed throughout, to ensure that 
there is no ‘one size fits all’ approach, and various approaches, including models, can be exploited 
as long as they meet general prudential requirements set out in the guidelines. The requirements 
for creditworthiness assessment for consumer lending have been simplified, compared with other 
asset classes, to ensure a practical application of the principle of proportionality. The EBA also 
clarified the requirements for the creditworthiness assessment of leveraged transactions that have 
been previously scattered across various sections. 
The section on pricing has been significantly revised to address respondents’ concerns. The EBA 
clarified the requirements and emphasised that the EBA’s intention is not to prescribe specific 
pricing strategies. The EBA also elaborated further on various risk-based metrics to be considered 
by institutions in their pricing approaches. 
With respect to the collateral valuation, the EBA has further revised the guidelines to allow the use 
of advanced statistical models for the valuation of immovable property collateral at the point of 
origination, subject to the strict conditions for such use, as far as possible within the requirements 
of the CRR/CRD and the MCD. The EBA also provided a set of requirements for the advanced 
statistical models themselves. 
Based on the feedback received, the EBA streamlined the requirements for the monitoring 
framework, introducing more proportionality and consideration of the risk profile of the borrowers 
and portfolios/individual loans. Further clarifications included the monitoring of soft information, 
behavioural aspects, leveraged transactions and the use of early warning signals. 
The EBA’s detailed assessment of the BSG opinion and other responses is presented in the feedback 
table, Summary of the responses received to the consultation and the EBA’s analysis, attached to 
this report and published on the EBA website. 
 

