PDF File: ias-36-impairment-of-assets.pdf
Page 1:
IAS 36
Impairment of Assets
In April 2001 the International Accounting Standards Board (Board) adopted IAS 36
Impairment of Assets, which had originally been issued by the International Accounting
Standards Committee in June 1998. That standard consolidated all the requirements on
how to assess for recoverability of an asset. These requirements were contained in IAS 16
Property, Plant and Equipment, IAS 22 Business Combinations, IAS 28 Accounting for Associates
and IAS 31 Financial Reporting of Interests in Joint Ventures.
The Board revised IAS 36 in March 2004 as part of the first phase of its business
combinations project. In January 2008 the Board amended IAS 36 again as part of the
second phase of its business combinations project.
In May 2013 IAS 36 was amended by Recoverable Amount Disclosures for Non-Financial Assets
(Amendments to IAS 36). The amendments required the disclosure of information about
the recoverable amount of impaired assets, if that amount is based on fair value less costs
of disposal and the disclosure of additional information about that fair value
measurement.
Other Standards have made minor consequential amendments to IAS 36. They include
IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements (issued May 2011), IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements
(issued May 2011), IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement (issued May 2011), IFRS 9 Financial
Instruments (Hedge Accounting and amendments to IFRS 9, IFRS 7 and IAS 39) (issued
November 2013), IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers (issued May 2014),
Agriculture: Bearer Plants (Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 41) (issued June 2014), IFRS 9
Financial Instruments (issued July 2014), IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts (issued May 2017),
Amendments to References to the Conceptual Framework in IFRS Standards (issued March 2018)
and Amendments to IFRS 17 (issued June 2020).
IAS 36
© IFRS Foundation
A1415

PDF File: ias-36-impairment-of-assets.pdf
Page 2:
CONTENTS
from paragraph
INTERNATIONAL ACCOUNTING STANDARD 36 
IMPAIRMENT OF ASSETS
OBJECTIVE
1
SCOPE
2
DEFINITIONS
6
IDENTIFYING AN ASSET THAT MAY BE IMPAIRED
7
MEASURING RECOVERABLE AMOUNT
18
Measuring the recoverable amount of an intangible asset with an indefinite
useful life
24
Fair value less costs of disposal
28
Value in use
30
RECOGNISING AND MEASURING AN IMPAIRMENT LOSS
58
CASH-GENERATING UNITS AND GOODWILL
65
Identifying the cash-generating unit to which an asset belongs
66
Recoverable amount and carrying amount of a cash-generating unit
74
Impairment loss for a cash-generating unit
104
REVERSING AN IMPAIRMENT LOSS
109
Reversing an impairment loss for an individual asset
117
Reversing an impairment loss for a cash-generating unit
122
Reversing an impairment loss for goodwill
124
DISCLOSURE
126
Estimates used to measure recoverable amounts of cash-generating units
containing goodwill or intangible assets with indefinite useful lives
134
TRANSITION PROVISIONS AND EFFECTIVE DATE
139
WITHDRAWAL OF IAS 36 (ISSUED 1998)
141
APPENDICES
A Using present value techniques to measure value in use
B Amendment to IAS 16
C Impairment testing cash-generating units with goodwill and non-
controlling interests
APPROVAL BY THE BOARD OF IAS 36 ISSUED IN MARCH 2004
APPROVAL BY THE BOARD OF RECOVERABLE AMOUNT DISCLOSURES
FOR NON-FINANCIAL ASSETS (AMENDMENTS TO IAS 36) ISSUED IN MAY
2013
FOR THE ACCOMPANYING GUIDANCE LISTED BELOW, SEE PART B OF THIS EDITION
ILLUSTRATIVE EXAMPLES
continued...
IAS 36
A1416
© IFRS Foundation

PDF File: ias-36-impairment-of-assets.pdf
Page 3:
...continued
FOR THE BASIS FOR CONCLUSIONS, SEE PART C OF THIS EDITION
BASIS FOR CONCLUSIONS
DISSENTING OPINIONS
IAS 36
© IFRS Foundation
A1417

PDF File: ias-36-impairment-of-assets.pdf
Page 4:
International Accounting Standard 36 Impairment of Assets (IAS 36) is set out
in paragraphs 1–141 and Appendices A–C. All the paragraphs have equal authority but
retain the IASC format of the Standard when it was adopted by the IASB. IAS 36 should
be read in the context of its objective and the Basis for Conclusions, the Preface to IFRS
Standards and the Conceptual Framework for Financial Reporting. IAS 8 Accounting Policies,
Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors provides a basis for selecting and applying
accounting policies in the absence of explicit guidance.
IAS 36
A1418
© IFRS Foundation

PDF File: ias-36-impairment-of-assets.pdf
Page 5:
International Accounting Standard 36
Impairment of Assets
Objective
The objective of this Standard is to prescribe the procedures that an entity
applies to ensure that its assets are carried at no more than their recoverable
amount. An asset is carried at more than its recoverable amount if its carrying
amount exceeds the amount to be recovered through use or sale of the asset.
If this is the case, the asset is described as impaired and the Standard requires
the entity to recognise an impairment loss. The Standard also specifies when
an entity should reverse an impairment loss and prescribes disclosures.
Scope
This Standard shall be applied in accounting for the impairment of all
assets, other than:
(a)
inventories (see IAS 2 Inventories);
(b)
contract assets and assets arising from costs to obtain or fulfil a
contract that are recognised in accordance with IFRS 15 Revenue
from Contracts with Customers;
(c)
deferred tax assets (see IAS 12 Income Taxes);
(d)
assets arising from employee benefits (see IAS 19 Employee Benefits);
(e)
financial assets that are within the scope of IFRS 9 Financial
Instruments;
(f)
investment property that is measured at fair value (see IAS 40
Investment Property);
(g)
biological assets related to agricultural activity within the scope of
IAS 41 Agriculture that are measured at fair value less costs to sell;
(h)
contracts within the scope of IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts that are
assets and any assets for insurance acquisition cash flows as defined
in IFRS 17; and
(i)
non-current assets (or disposal groups) classified as held for sale in
accordance with IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and
Discontinued Operations.
This Standard does not apply to inventories, assets arising from construction
contracts, deferred tax assets, assets arising from employee benefits, or assets
classified as held for sale (or included in a disposal group that is classified as
held for sale) because existing IFRSs applicable to these assets contain
requirements for recognising and measuring these assets.
This Standard applies to financial assets classified as:
(a)
subsidiaries, as defined in IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements;
1
2
3
4
IAS 36
© IFRS Foundation
A1419

PDF File: ias-36-impairment-of-assets.pdf
Page 6:
(b)
associates, as defined in IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures;
and
(c)
joint ventures, as defined in IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements.
For impairment of other financial assets, refer to IFRS 9.
This Standard does not apply to financial assets within the scope of IFRS 9,
investment property measured at fair value within the scope of IAS 40, or
biological assets related to agricultural activity measured at fair value less
costs to sell within the scope of IAS 41. However, this Standard applies to
assets that are carried at revalued amount (ie fair value at the date of the
revaluation less any subsequent accumulated depreciation and subsequent
accumulated impairment losses) in accordance with other IFRSs, such as the
revaluation model in IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment and IAS 38 Intangible
Assets. The only difference between an asset’s fair value and its fair value less
costs of disposal is the direct incremental costs attributable to the disposal of
the asset.
(a)
If the disposal costs are negligible, the recoverable amount of the
revalued asset is necessarily close to, or greater than, its revalued
amount. In this case, after the revaluation requirements have been
applied, it is unlikely that the revalued asset is impaired and
recoverable amount need not be estimated.
(b)
[deleted]
(c)
If the disposal costs are not negligible, the fair value less costs of
disposal of the revalued asset is necessarily less than its fair value.
Therefore, the revalued asset will be impaired if its value in use is less
than its revalued amount. In this case, after the revaluation
requirements have been applied, an entity applies this Standard to
determine whether the asset may be impaired.
Definitions
The following terms are used in this Standard with the meanings specified: 
Carrying amount is the amount at which an asset is recognised after
deducting 
any 
accumulated 
depreciation 
(amortisation) 
and
accumulated impairment losses thereon.
A cash-generating unit is the smallest identifiable group of assets that
generates cash inflows that are largely independent of the cash inflows
from other assets or groups of assets.
Corporate assets are assets other than goodwill that contribute to the future
cash flows of both the cash-generating unit under review and other
cash-generating units.
Costs of disposal are incremental costs directly attributable to the disposal of
an asset or cash-generating unit, excluding finance costs and income tax
expense.
5
6
IAS 36
A1420
© IFRS Foundation

PDF File: ias-36-impairment-of-assets.pdf
Page 7:
Depreciable amount is the cost of an asset, or other amount substituted for
cost in the financial statements, less its residual value.
Depreciation (Amortisation) is the systematic allocation of the depreciable
amount of an asset over its useful life.1
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to
transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at
the measurement date. (See IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement.)
An impairment loss is the amount by which the carrying amount of an asset
or a cash-generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount of an asset or a cash-generating unit is the higher of
its fair value less costs of disposal and its value in use.
Useful life is either:
(a)
the period of time over which an asset is expected to be used by the
entity; or
(b)
the number of production or similar units expected to be obtained
from the asset by the entity.
Value in use is the present value of the future cash flows expected to be
derived from an asset or cash-generating unit.
Identifying an asset that may be impaired
Paragraphs 8–17 specify when recoverable amount shall be determined. These
requirements use the term ‘an asset’ but apply equally to an individual asset
or a cash-generating unit. The remainder of this Standard is structured as
follows:
(a)
paragraphs 18–57 set out the requirements for measuring recoverable
amount. These requirements also use the term ‘an asset’ but apply
equally to an individual asset and a cash-generating unit.
(b)
paragraphs 58–108 set out the requirements for recognising and
measuring impairment losses. Recognition and measurement of
impairment losses for individual assets other than goodwill are dealt
with in paragraphs 58–64. Paragraphs 65–108 deal with the
recognition 
and 
measurement 
of 
impairment 
losses 
for
cash-generating units and goodwill.
(c)
paragraphs 109–116 set out the requirements for reversing an
impairment loss recognised in prior periods for an asset or a
cash-generating unit. Again, these requirements use the term ‘an asset’
but apply equally to an individual asset or a cash-generating unit.
Additional requirements for an individual asset are set out in
paragraphs 117–121, for a cash-generating unit in paragraphs 122 and
123, and for goodwill in paragraphs 124 and 125.
7
1
In the case of an intangible asset, the term ‘amortisation’ is generally used instead of
‘depreciation’. The two terms have the same meaning.
IAS 36
© IFRS Foundation
A1421

PDF File: ias-36-impairment-of-assets.pdf
Page 8:
(d)
paragraphs 126–133 specify the information to be disclosed about
impairment losses and reversals of impairment losses for assets and
cash-generating 
units. 
Paragraphs 
134–137 
specify 
additional
disclosure requirements for cash-generating units to which goodwill or
intangible assets with indefinite useful lives have been allocated for
impairment testing purposes.
An asset is impaired when its carrying amount exceeds its recoverable
amount. Paragraphs 12–14 describe some indications that an impairment loss
may have occurred. If any of those indications is present, an entity is required
to make a formal estimate of recoverable amount. Except as described in
paragraph 10, this Standard does not require an entity to make a formal
estimate of recoverable amount if no indication of an impairment loss is
present.
An entity shall assess at the end of each reporting period whether there is
any indication that an asset may be impaired. If any such indication exists,
the entity shall estimate the recoverable amount of the asset.
Irrespective of whether there is any indication of impairment, an entity
shall also:
(a)
test an intangible asset with an indefinite useful life or an intangible
asset not yet available for use for impairment annually by
comparing its carrying amount with its recoverable amount. This
impairment test may be performed at any time during an annual
period, provided it is performed at the same time every year.
Different intangible assets may be tested for impairment at
different times. However, if such an intangible asset was initially
recognised during the current annual period, that intangible asset
shall be tested for impairment before the end of the current annual
period.
(b)
test goodwill acquired in a business combination for impairment
annually in accordance with paragraphs 80–99.
The ability of an intangible asset to generate sufficient future economic
benefits to recover its carrying amount is usually subject to greater
uncertainty before the asset is available for use than after it is available for
use. Therefore, this Standard requires an entity to test for impairment, at least
annually, the carrying amount of an intangible asset that is not yet available
for use.
In assessing whether there is any indication that an asset may be impaired,
an entity shall consider, as a minimum, the following indications: 
External sources of information
(a)
there are observable indications that the asset’s value has declined
during the period significantly more than would be expected as a
result of the passage of time or normal use.
8
9
10
11
12
IAS 36
A1422
© IFRS Foundation

PDF File: ias-36-impairment-of-assets.pdf
Page 9:
(b)
significant changes with an adverse effect on the entity have taken
place during the period, or will take place in the near future, in the
technological, market, economic or legal environment in which the
entity operates or in the market to which an asset is dedicated.
(c)
market interest rates or other market rates of return on
investments have increased during the period, and those increases
are likely to affect the discount rate used in calculating an
asset’s value in use and decrease the asset’s recoverable
amount materially.
(d)
the carrying amount of the net assets of the entity is more than its
market capitalisation.
Internal sources of information
(e)
evidence is available of obsolescence or physical damage of an asset.
(f)
significant changes with an adverse effect on the entity have taken
place during the period, or are expected to take place in the near
future, in the extent to which, or manner in which, an asset is used
or is expected to be used. These changes include the asset becoming
idle, plans to discontinue or restructure the operation to which an
asset belongs, plans to dispose of an asset before the previously
expected date, and reassessing the useful life of an asset as finite
rather than indefinite.2
(g)
evidence is available from internal reporting that indicates that the
economic performance of an asset is, or will be, worse than
expected.
Dividend from a subsidiary, joint venture or associate
(h)
for an investment in a subsidiary, joint venture or associate, the
investor recognises a dividend from the investment and evidence is
available that:
(i)
the carrying amount of the investment in the separate
financial statements exceeds the carrying amounts in the
consolidated financial statements of the investee’s net assets,
including associated goodwill; or
(ii)
the dividend exceeds the total comprehensive income of the
subsidiary, joint venture or associate in the period the
dividend is declared.
The list in paragraph 12 is not exhaustive. An entity may identify other
indications that an asset may be impaired and these would also require the
entity to determine the asset’s recoverable amount or, in the case of goodwill,
perform an impairment test in accordance with paragraphs 80–99.
13
2
Once an asset meets the criteria to be classified as held for sale (or is included in a disposal group
that is classified as held for sale), it is excluded from the scope of this Standard and is accounted
for in accordance with IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations.
IAS 36
© IFRS Foundation
A1423

PDF File: ias-36-impairment-of-assets.pdf
Page 10:
Evidence from internal reporting that indicates that an asset may be impaired
includes the existence of:
(a)
cash flows for acquiring the asset, or subsequent cash needs for
operating or maintaining it, that are significantly higher than those
originally budgeted;
(b)
actual net cash flows or operating profit or loss flowing from the asset
that are significantly worse than those budgeted;
(c)
a significant decline in budgeted net cash flows or operating profit, or
a significant increase in budgeted loss, flowing from the asset; or
(d)
operating losses or net cash outflows for the asset, when current
period amounts are aggregated with budgeted amounts for the future.
As indicated in paragraph 10, this Standard requires an intangible asset with
an indefinite useful life or not yet available for use and goodwill to be tested
for impairment, at least annually. Apart from when the requirements
in paragraph 10 apply, the concept of materiality applies in identifying
whether the recoverable amount of an asset needs to be estimated. For
example, if previous calculations show that an asset’s recoverable amount is
significantly greater than its carrying amount, the entity need not re-estimate
the asset’s recoverable amount if no events have occurred that would
eliminate that difference. Similarly, previous analysis may show that an
asset’s recoverable amount is not sensitive to one (or more) of the indications
listed in paragraph 12.
As an illustration of paragraph 15, if market interest rates or other market
rates of return on investments have increased during the period, an entity is
not required to make a formal estimate of an asset’s recoverable amount in
the following cases: 
(a)
if the discount rate used in calculating the asset’s value in use is
unlikely to be affected by the increase in these market rates. For
example, increases in short-term interest rates may not have a material
effect on the discount rate used for an asset that has a long remaining
useful life.
(b)
if the discount rate used in calculating the asset’s value in use is likely
to be affected by the increase in these market rates but previous
sensitivity analysis of recoverable amount shows that:
(i)
it is unlikely that there will be a material decrease in
recoverable amount because future cash flows are also likely to
increase (eg in some cases, an entity may be able to
demonstrate that it adjusts its revenues to compensate for any
increase in market rates); or
(ii)
the decrease in recoverable amount is unlikely to result in a
material impairment loss.
14
15
16
IAS 36
A1424
© IFRS Foundation

PDF File: ias-36-impairment-of-assets.pdf
Page 11:
If there is an indication that an asset may be impaired, this may indicate that
the remaining useful life, the depreciation (amortisation) method or the
residual value for the asset needs to be reviewed and adjusted in accordance
with the Standard applicable to the asset, even if no impairment loss is
recognised for the asset.
Measuring recoverable amount
This Standard defines recoverable amount as the higher of an asset’s or
cash-generating unit’s fair value less costs of disposal and its value in use.
Paragraphs 19–57 set out the requirements for measuring recoverable
amount. These requirements use the term ‘an asset’ but apply equally to an
individual asset or a cash-generating unit.
It is not always necessary to determine both an asset’s fair value less costs of
disposal and its value in use. If either of these amounts exceeds the asset’s
carrying amount, the asset is not impaired and it is not necessary to estimate
the other amount.
It may be possible to measure fair value less costs of disposal, even if there is
not a quoted price in an active market for an identical asset. However,
sometimes it will not be possible to measure fair value less costs of disposal
because there is no basis for making a reliable estimate of the price at which
an orderly transaction to sell the asset would take place between market
participants at the measurement date under current market conditions. In
this case, the entity may use the asset’s value in use as its recoverable amount.
If there is no reason to believe that an asset’s value in use materially exceeds
its fair value less costs of disposal, the asset’s fair value less costs of disposal
may be used as its recoverable amount. This will often be the case for an asset
that is held for disposal. This is because the value in use of an asset held for
disposal will consist mainly of the net disposal proceeds, as the future cash
flows from continuing use of the asset until its disposal are likely to be
negligible.
Recoverable amount is determined for an individual asset, unless the asset
does not generate cash inflows that are largely independent of those from
other assets or groups of assets. If this is the case, recoverable amount is
determined for the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs (see
paragraphs 65–103), unless either:
(a)
the asset’s fair value less costs of disposal is higher than its carrying
amount; or
(b)
the asset’s value in use can be estimated to be close to its fair value less
costs of disposal and fair value less costs of disposal can be measured.
In some cases, estimates, averages and computational short cuts may provide
reasonable approximations of the detailed computations illustrated in this
Standard for determining fair value less costs of disposal or value in use.
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
IAS 36
© IFRS Foundation
A1425

PDF File: ias-36-impairment-of-assets.pdf
Page 12:
Measuring the recoverable amount of an intangible asset
with an indefinite useful life
Paragraph 10 requires an intangible asset with an indefinite useful life to be
tested for impairment annually by comparing its carrying amount with its
recoverable amount, irrespective of whether there is any indication that it
may be impaired. However, the most recent detailed calculation of such an
asset’s recoverable amount made in a preceding period may be used in the
impairment test for that asset in the current period, provided all of the
following criteria are met:
(a)
if the intangible asset does not generate cash inflows from continuing
use that are largely independent of those from other assets or groups
of assets and is therefore tested for impairment as part of the
cash-generating unit to which it belongs, the assets and liabilities
making up that unit have not changed significantly since the most
recent recoverable amount calculation;
(b)
the most recent recoverable amount calculation resulted in an amount
that exceeded the asset’s carrying amount by a substantial margin; and
(c)
based on an analysis of events that have occurred and circumstances
that have changed since the most recent recoverable amount
calculation, the likelihood that a current recoverable amount
determination would be less than the asset’s carrying amount is
remote.
Fair value less costs of disposal
[Deleted]
Costs of disposal, other than those that have been recognised as liabilities, are
deducted in measuring fair value less costs of disposal. Examples of such costs
are legal costs, stamp duty and similar transaction taxes, costs of removing
the asset, and direct incremental costs to bring an asset into condition for its
sale. However, termination benefits (as defined in IAS 19) and costs associated
with reducing or reorganising a business following the disposal of an asset are
not direct incremental costs to dispose of the asset.
Sometimes, the disposal of an asset would require the buyer to assume a
liability and only a single fair value less costs of disposal is available for both
the asset and the liability. Paragraph 78 explains how to deal with such cases.
Value in use
The following elements shall be reflected in the calculation of an asset’s
value in use:
(a)
an estimate of the future cash flows the entity expects to derive
from the asset;
(b)
expectations about possible variations in the amount or timing of
those future cash flows;
24
25–27
28
29
30
IAS 36
A1426
© IFRS Foundation

PDF File: ias-36-impairment-of-assets.pdf
Page 13:
(c)
the time value of money, represented by the current market
risk-free rate of interest;
(d)
the price for bearing the uncertainty inherent in the asset; and
(e)
other factors, such as illiquidity, that market participants would
reflect in pricing the future cash flows the entity expects to derive
from the asset.
Estimating the value in use of an asset involves the following steps:
(a)
estimating the future cash inflows and outflows to be derived from
continuing use of the asset and from its ultimate disposal; and
(b)
applying the appropriate discount rate to those future cash flows.
The elements identified in paragraph 30(b), (d) and (e) can be reflected either
as adjustments to the future cash flows or as adjustments to the discount rate.
Whichever approach an entity adopts to reflect expectations about possible
variations in the amount or timing of future cash flows, the result shall be to
reflect the expected present value of the future cash flows, ie the weighted
average of all possible outcomes. Appendix A provides additional guidance on
the use of present value techniques in measuring an asset’s value in use.
Basis for estimates of future cash flows
In measuring value in use an entity shall:
(a)
base cash flow projections on reasonable and supportable
assumptions that represent management’s best estimate of the
range of economic conditions that will exist over the remaining
useful life of the asset. Greater weight shall be given to external
evidence.
(b)
base cash flow projections on the most recent financial budgets/
forecasts approved by management, but shall exclude any estimated
future cash inflows or outflows expected to arise from future
restructurings or from improving or enhancing the asset’s
performance. Projections based on these budgets/forecasts shall
cover a maximum period of five years, unless a longer period can be
justified.
(c)
estimate cash flow projections beyond the period covered by the
most recent budgets/forecasts by extrapolating the projections
based on the budgets/forecasts using a steady or declining growth
rate for subsequent years, unless an increasing rate can be justified.
This growth rate shall not exceed the long-term average growth rate
for the products, industries, or country or countries in which the
entity operates, or for the market in which the asset is used, unless
a higher rate can be justified.
Management assesses the reasonableness of the assumptions on which its
current cash flow projections are based by examining the causes of differences
between past cash flow projections and actual cash flows. Management shall
ensure that the assumptions on which its current cash flow projections are
31
32
33
34
IAS 36
© IFRS Foundation
A1427

PDF File: ias-36-impairment-of-assets.pdf
Page 14:
based are consistent with past actual outcomes, provided the effects of
subsequent events or circumstances that did not exist when those actual cash
flows were generated make this appropriate.
Detailed, explicit and reliable financial budgets/forecasts of future cash flows
for periods longer than five years are generally not available. For this reason,
management’s estimates of future cash flows are based on the most recent
budgets/forecasts for a maximum of five years. Management may use cash
flow projections based on financial budgets/forecasts over a period longer than
five years if it is confident that these projections are reliable and it can
demonstrate its ability, based on past experience, to forecast cash flows
accurately over that longer period.
Cash flow projections until the end of an asset’s useful life are estimated by
extrapolating the cash flow projections based on the financial budgets/
forecasts using a growth rate for subsequent years. This rate is steady or
declining, unless an increase in the rate matches objective information about
patterns over a product or industry lifecycle. If appropriate, the growth rate is
zero or negative.
When conditions are favourable, competitors are likely to enter the market
and restrict growth. Therefore, entities will have difficulty in exceeding the
average historical growth rate over the long term (say, twenty years) for the
products, industries, or country or countries in which the entity operates, or
for the market in which the asset is used.
In using information from financial budgets/forecasts, an entity considers
whether the information reflects reasonable and supportable assumptions and
represents management’s best estimate of the set of economic conditions that
will exist over the remaining useful life of the asset.
Composition of estimates of future cash flows
Estimates of future cash flows shall include:
(a)
projections of cash inflows from the continuing use of the asset;
(b)
projections of cash outflows that are necessarily incurred to
generate the cash inflows from continuing use of the asset
(including cash outflows to prepare the asset for use) and can be
directly attributed, or allocated on a reasonable and consistent
basis, to the asset; and
(c)
net cash flows, if any, to be received (or paid) for the disposal of the
asset at the end of its useful life.
Estimates of future cash flows and the discount rate reflect consistent
assumptions about price increases attributable to general inflation. Therefore,
if the discount rate includes the effect of price increases attributable to
general inflation, future cash flows are estimated in nominal terms. If the
discount rate excludes the effect of price increases attributable to general
inflation, future cash flows are estimated in real terms (but include future
specific price increases or decreases).
35
36
37
38
39
40
IAS 36
A1428
© IFRS Foundation

PDF File: ias-36-impairment-of-assets.pdf
Page 15:
Projections of cash outflows include those for the day-to-day servicing of the
asset as well as future overheads that can be attributed directly, or allocated
on a reasonable and consistent basis, to the use of the asset.
When the carrying amount of an asset does not yet include all the cash
outflows to be incurred before it is ready for use or sale, the estimate of future
cash outflows includes an estimate of any further cash outflow that is
expected to be incurred before the asset is ready for use or sale. For example,
this is the case for a building under construction or for a development project
that is not yet completed.
To avoid double-counting, estimates of future cash flows do not include:
(a)
cash inflows from assets that generate cash inflows that are largely
independent of the cash inflows from the asset under review (for
example, financial assets such as receivables); and
(b)
cash outflows that relate to obligations that have been recognised as
liabilities (for example, payables, pensions or provisions).
Future cash flows shall be estimated for the asset in its current condition.
Estimates of future cash flows shall not include estimated future cash
inflows or outflows that are expected to arise from:
(a)
a future restructuring to which an entity is not yet committed; or
(b)
improving or enhancing the asset’s performance.
Because future cash flows are estimated for the asset in its current condition,
value in use does not reflect:
(a)
future cash outflows or related cost savings (for example reductions in
staff costs) or benefits that are expected to arise from a future
restructuring to which an entity is not yet committed; or
(b)
future cash outflows that will improve or enhance the asset’s
performance or the related cash inflows that are expected to arise from
such outflows.
A restructuring is a programme that is planned and controlled by
management and materially changes either the scope of the business
undertaken by an entity or the manner in which the business is
conducted. IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets contains
guidance clarifying when an entity is committed to a restructuring.
When an entity becomes committed to a restructuring, some assets are likely
to be affected by this restructuring. Once the entity is committed to the
restructuring:
(a)
its estimates of future cash inflows and cash outflows for the purpose
of determining value in use reflect the cost savings and other benefits
from the restructuring (based on the most recent financial budgets/
forecasts approved by management); and
(b)
its estimates of future cash outflows for the restructuring are included
in a restructuring provision in accordance with IAS 37.
41
42
43
44
45
46
47
IAS 36
© IFRS Foundation
A1429

PDF File: ias-36-impairment-of-assets.pdf
Page 16:
Illustrative Example 5 illustrates the effect of a future restructuring on a value
in use calculation.
Until an entity incurs cash outflows that improve or enhance the asset’s
performance, estimates of future cash flows do not include the estimated
future cash inflows that are expected to arise from the increase in economic
benefits associated with the cash outflow (see Illustrative Example 6).
Estimates of future cash flows include future cash outflows necessary to
maintain the level of economic benefits expected to arise from the asset in its
current condition. When a cash-generating unit consists of assets with
different estimated useful lives, all of which are essential to the ongoing
operation of the unit, the replacement of assets with shorter lives is
considered to be part of the day-to-day servicing of the unit when estimating
the future cash flows associated with the unit. Similarly, when a single asset
consists of components with different estimated useful lives, the replacement
of components with shorter lives is considered to be part of the day-to-day
servicing of the asset when estimating the future cash flows generated by the
asset.
Estimates of future cash flows shall not include:
(a)
cash inflows or outflows from financing activities; or
(b)
income tax receipts or payments.
Estimated future cash flows reflect assumptions that are consistent with the
way the discount rate is determined. Otherwise, the effect of some
assumptions will be counted twice or ignored. Because the time value of
money is considered by discounting the estimated future cash flows, these
cash flows exclude cash inflows or outflows from financing activities.
Similarly, because the discount rate is determined on a pre-tax basis, future
cash flows are also estimated on a pre-tax basis.
The estimate of net cash flows to be received (or paid) for the disposal of an
asset at the end of its useful life shall be the amount that an entity expects
to obtain from the disposal of the asset in an arm’s length transaction
between 
knowledgeable, 
willing 
parties, 
after 
deducting 
the
estimated costs of disposal.
The estimate of net cash flows to be received (or paid) for the disposal of an
asset at the end of its useful life is determined in a similar way to an
asset’s fair value less costs of disposal, except that, in estimating those net
cash flows: 
(a)
an entity uses prices prevailing at the date of the estimate for similar
assets that have reached the end of their useful life and have operated
under conditions similar to those in which the asset will be used.
(b)
the entity adjusts those prices for the effect of both future price
increases due to general inflation and specific future price increases or
decreases. However, if estimates of future cash flows from the asset’s
continuing use and the discount rate exclude the effect of general
48
49
50
51
52
53
IAS 36
A1430
© IFRS Foundation

PDF File: ias-36-impairment-of-assets.pdf
Page 17:
inflation, the entity also excludes this effect from the estimate of net
cash flows on disposal.
Fair value differs from value in use. Fair value reflects the assumptions
market participants would use when pricing the asset. In contrast, value in
use reflects the effects of factors that may be specific to the entity and not
applicable to entities in general. For example, fair value does not reflect any of
the following factors to the extent that they would not be generally available
to market participants:
(a)
additional value derived from the grouping of assets (such as the
creation of a portfolio of investment properties in different locations);
(b)
synergies between the asset being measured and other assets;
(c)
legal rights or legal restrictions that are specific only to the current
owner of the asset; and
(d)
tax benefits or tax burdens that are specific to the current owner of the
asset.
Foreign currency future cash flows
Future cash flows are estimated in the currency in which they will be
generated and then discounted using a discount rate appropriate for that
currency. An entity translates the present value using the spot exchange rate
at the date of the value in use calculation.
Discount rate
The discount rate (rates) shall be a pre-tax rate (rates) that reflect(s) current
market assessments of:
(a)
the time value of money; and
(b)
the risks specific to the asset for which the future cash flow
estimates have not been adjusted.
A rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money
and the risks specific to the asset is the return that investors would require if
they were to choose an investment that would generate cash flows of
amounts, timing and risk profile equivalent to those that the entity expects to
derive from the asset. This rate is estimated from the rate implicit in current
market transactions for similar assets or from the weighted average cost of
capital of a listed entity that has a single asset (or a portfolio of assets) similar
in terms of service potential and risks to the asset under review. However, the
discount rate(s) used to measure an asset’s value in use shall not reflect risks
for which the future cash flow estimates have been adjusted. Otherwise, the
effect of some assumptions will be double-counted.
When an asset-specific rate is not directly available from the market, an entity
uses surrogates to estimate the discount rate. Appendix A provides additional
guidance on estimating the discount rate in such circumstances.
53A
54
55
56
57
IAS 36
© IFRS Foundation
A1431

PDF File: ias-36-impairment-of-assets.pdf
Page 18:
Recognising and measuring an impairment loss
Paragraphs 59–64 set out the requirements for recognising and measuring
impairment losses for an individual asset other than goodwill. Recognising
and measuring impairment losses for cash-generating units and goodwill are
dealt with in paragraphs 65–108.
If, and only if, the recoverable amount of an asset is less than its carrying
amount, the carrying amount of the asset shall be reduced to its
recoverable amount. That reduction is an impairment loss.
An impairment loss shall be recognised immediately in profit or loss,
unless the asset is carried at revalued amount in accordance with another
Standard (for example, in accordance with the revaluation model in IAS 16).
Any impairment loss of a revalued asset shall be treated as a revaluation
decrease in accordance with that other Standard.
An impairment loss on a non-revalued asset is recognised in profit or loss.
However, an impairment loss on a revalued asset is recognised in other
comprehensive income to the extent that the impairment loss does not exceed
the amount in the revaluation surplus for that same asset. Such an
impairment loss on a revalued asset reduces the revaluation surplus for that
asset.
When the amount estimated for an impairment loss is greater than the
carrying amount of the asset to which it relates, an entity shall recognise a
liability if, and only if, that is required by another Standard.
After 
the 
recognition 
of 
an 
impairment 
loss, 
the 
depreciation
(amortisation) charge for the asset shall be adjusted in future periods to
allocate the asset’s revised carrying amount, less its residual value (if any),
on a systematic basis over its remaining useful life.
If an impairment loss is recognised, any related deferred tax assets or
liabilities are determined in accordance with IAS 12 by comparing the revised
carrying amount of the asset with its tax base (see Illustrative Example 3).
Cash-generating units and goodwill
Paragraphs 66–108 and Appendix C set out the requirements for identifying
the cash-generating unit to which an asset belongs and determining the
carrying amount of, and recognising impairment losses for, cash-generating
units and goodwill.
Identifying the cash-generating unit to which an asset
belongs
If there is any indication that an asset may be impaired, recoverable
amount shall be estimated for the individual asset. If it is not possible to
estimate the recoverable amount of the individual asset, an entity shall
determine the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the
asset belongs (the asset’s cash-generating unit).
58
59
60
61
62
63
64
65
66
IAS 36
A1432
© IFRS Foundation

PDF File: ias-36-impairment-of-assets.pdf
Page 19:
The recoverable amount of an individual asset cannot be determined if:
(a)
the asset’s value in use cannot be estimated to be close to its fair value
less costs of disposal (for example, when the future cash flows from
continuing use of the asset cannot be estimated to be negligible); and
(b)
the asset does not generate cash inflows that are largely independent
of those from other assets.
In such cases, value in use and, therefore, recoverable amount, can be
determined only for the asset’s cash-generating unit.
Example
A mining entity owns a private railway to support its mining activities. The
private railway could be sold only for scrap value and it does not generate
cash inflows that are largely independent of the cash inflows from the other
assets of the mine.
It is not possible to estimate the recoverable amount of the private railway because its
value in use cannot be determined and is probably different from scrap value.
Therefore, the entity estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to
which the private railway belongs, ie the mine as a whole.
As defined in paragraph 6, an asset’s cash-generating unit is the smallest
group of assets that includes the asset and generates cash inflows that are
largely independent of the cash inflows from other assets or groups of assets.
Identification of an asset’s cash-generating unit involves judgement.
If recoverable amount cannot be determined for an individual asset, an entity
identifies the lowest aggregation of assets that generate largely independent
cash inflows.
Example
A bus company provides services under contract with a municipality that
requires minimum service on each of five separate routes. Assets devoted to
each route and the cash flows from each route can be identified separately.
One of the routes operates at a significant loss.
Because the entity does not have the option to curtail any one bus route, the lowest level
of identifiable cash inflows that are largely independent of the cash inflows from other
assets or groups of assets is the cash inflows generated by the five routes together.
The cash-generating unit for each route is the bus company as a whole.
Cash inflows are inflows of cash and cash equivalents received from parties
external to the entity. In identifying whether cash inflows from an asset (or
group of assets) are largely independent of the cash inflows from other assets
(or groups of assets), an entity considers various factors including how
management monitors the entity’s operations (such as by product lines,
businesses, individual locations, districts or regional areas) or how
management makes decisions about continuing or disposing of the entity’s
assets and operations. Illustrative Example 1 gives examples of identification
of a cash-generating unit.
67
68
69
IAS 36
© IFRS Foundation
A1433

PDF File: ias-36-impairment-of-assets.pdf
Page 20:
If an active market exists for the output produced by an asset or group of
assets, that asset or group of assets shall be identified as a cash-generating
unit, even if some or all of the output is used internally. If the cash inflows
generated by any asset or cash-generating unit are affected by internal
transfer pricing, an entity shall use management’s best estimate of future
price(s) that could be achieved in arm’s length transactions in estimating:
(a)
the future cash inflows used to determine the asset’s or
cash-generating unit’s value in use; and
(b)
the future cash outflows used to determine the value in use of any
other assets or cash-generating units that are affected by the
internal transfer pricing.
Even if part or all of the output produced by an asset or a group of assets is
used by other units of the entity (for example, products at an intermediate
stage of a production process), this asset or group of assets forms a separate
cash-generating unit if the entity could sell the output on an active market.
This is because the asset or group of assets could generate cash inflows that
would be largely independent of the cash inflows from other assets or groups
of assets. In using information based on financial budgets/forecasts that
relates to such a cash-generating unit, or to any other asset or cash-generating
unit affected by internal transfer pricing, an entity adjusts this information if
internal transfer prices do not reflect management’s best estimate of future
prices that could be achieved in arm’s length transactions.
Cash-generating units shall be identified consistently from period to period
for the same asset or types of assets, unless a change is justified.
If an entity determines that an asset belongs to a cash-generating unit
different from that in previous periods, or that the types of assets aggregated
for the asset’s cash-generating unit have changed, paragraph 130 requires
disclosures about the cash-generating unit, if an impairment loss is recognised
or reversed for the cash-generating unit.
Recoverable amount and carrying amount of a
cash-generating unit
The recoverable amount of a cash-generating unit is the higher of the
cash-generating unit’s fair value less costs of disposal and its value in use. For
the purpose of determining the recoverable amount of a cash-generating unit,
any reference in paragraphs 19–57 to ‘an asset’ is read as a reference to
‘a cash-generating unit’.
The carrying amount of a cash-generating unit shall be determined on a
basis 
consistent 
with 
the 
way 
the 
recoverable 
amount 
of 
the
cash-generating unit is determined.
70
71
72
73
74
75
IAS 36
A1434
© IFRS Foundation

PDF File: ias-36-impairment-of-assets.pdf
Page 21:
The carrying amount of a cash-generating unit:
(a)
includes the carrying amount of only those assets that can be
attributed directly, or allocated on a reasonable and consistent basis, to
the cash-generating unit and will generate the future cash inflows
used in determining the cash-generating unit’s value in use; and
(b)
does not include the carrying amount of any recognised liability,
unless the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit cannot be
determined without consideration of this liability.
This is because fair value less costs of disposal and value in use of a
cash-generating unit are determined excluding cash flows that relate to assets
that are not part of the cash-generating unit and liabilities that have been
recognised (see paragraphs 28 and 43).
When assets are grouped for recoverability assessments, it is important to
include in the cash-generating unit all assets that generate or are used to
generate the relevant stream of cash inflows. Otherwise, the cash-generating
unit may appear to be fully recoverable when in fact an impairment loss has
occurred. In some cases, although some assets contribute to the estimated
future cash flows of a cash-generating unit, they cannot be allocated to the
cash-generating unit on a reasonable and consistent basis. This might be the
case for goodwill or corporate assets such as head office assets. Paragraphs
80–103 explain how to deal with these assets in testing a cash-generating unit
for impairment.
It may be necessary to consider some recognised liabilities to determine the
recoverable amount of a cash-generating unit. This may occur if the disposal
of a cash-generating unit would require the buyer to assume the liability. In
this case, the fair value less costs of disposal (or the estimated cash flow from
ultimate disposal) of the cash-generating unit is the price to sell the assets of
the cash-generating unit and the liability together, less the costs of
disposal. To perform a meaningful comparison between the carrying amount
of the cash-generating unit and its recoverable amount, the carrying amount
of the liability is deducted in determining both the cash-generating unit’s
value in use and its carrying amount.
Example
A company operates a mine in a country where legislation requires that the
owner must restore the site on completion of its mining operations. The cost
of restoration includes the replacement of the overburden, which must be
removed before mining operations commence. A provision for the costs to
replace the overburden was recognised as soon as the overburden was
removed. The amount provided was recognised as part of the cost of the
mine and is being depreciated over the mine’s useful life. The carrying
amount of the provision for restoration costs is CU500,(a) which is equal to
the present value of the restoration costs.
continued...
76
77
78
IAS 36
© IFRS Foundation
A1435

PDF File: ias-36-impairment-of-assets.pdf
Page 22:
...continued
Example
The entity is testing the mine for impairment. The cash-generating unit for
the mine is the mine as a whole. The entity has received various offers to
buy the mine at a price of around CU800. This price reflects the fact that the
buyer will assume the obligation to restore the overburden. Disposal costs
for the mine are negligible. The value in use of the mine is approximately
CU1,200, excluding restoration costs. The carrying amount of the mine is
CU1,000.
The cash-generating unit’s fair value less costs of disposal is CU800. This amount
considers restoration costs that have already been provided for. As a consequence, the
value in use for the cash-generating unit is determined after consideration of the
restoration costs and is estimated to be CU700 (CU1,200 less CU500). The carrying
amount of the cash-generating unit is CU500, which is the carrying amount of the mine
(CU1,000) less the carrying amount of the provision for restoration costs (CU500).
Therefore, the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit exceeds its carrying
amount.
(a)
In this Standard, monetary amounts are denominated in ‘currency units (CU)’.
For practical reasons, the recoverable amount of a cash-generating unit is
sometimes determined after consideration of assets that are not part of the
cash-generating unit (for example, receivables or other financial assets) or
liabilities that have been recognised (for example, payables, pensions and
other provisions). In such cases, the carrying amount of the cash-generating
unit is increased by the carrying amount of those assets and decreased by the
carrying amount of those liabilities.
Goodwill
Allocating goodwill to cash-generating units
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a business
combination shall, from the acquisition date, be allocated to each of the
acquirer’s cash-generating units, or groups of cash-generating units, that is
expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination, irrespective of
whether other assets or liabilities of the acquiree are assigned to those
units or groups of units. Each unit or group of units to which the goodwill
is so allocated shall: 
(a)
represent the lowest level within the entity at which the goodwill is
monitored for internal management purposes; and
(b)
not be larger than an operating segment as defined by paragraph 5
of IFRS 8 Operating Segments before aggregation.
Goodwill recognised in a business combination is an asset representing the
future economic benefits arising from other assets acquired in a business
combination that are not individually identified and separately recognised.
Goodwill does not generate cash flows independently of other assets or groups
79
80
81
IAS 36
A1436
© IFRS Foundation

PDF File: ias-36-impairment-of-assets.pdf
Page 23:
of assets, and often contributes to the cash flows of multiple cash-generating
units. Goodwill sometimes cannot be allocated on a non-arbitrary basis to
individual cash-generating units, but only to groups of cash-generating units.
As a result, the lowest level within the entity at which the goodwill is
monitored for internal management purposes sometimes comprises a number
of cash-generating units to which the goodwill relates, but to which it cannot
be allocated. References in paragraphs 83–99 and Appendix C to a
cash-generating unit to which goodwill is allocated should be read as
references also to a group of cash-generating units to which goodwill is
allocated.
Applying the requirements in paragraph 80 results in goodwill being tested
for impairment at a level that reflects the way an entity manages its
operations and with which the goodwill would naturally be associated.
Therefore, the development of additional reporting systems is typically not
necessary.
A cash-generating unit to which goodwill is allocated for the purpose of
impairment testing may not coincide with the level at which goodwill is
allocated in accordance with IAS 21 The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange
Rates for the purpose of measuring foreign currency gains and losses. For
example, if an entity is required by IAS 21 to allocate goodwill to relatively
low levels for the purpose of measuring foreign currency gains and losses, it is
not required to test the goodwill for impairment at that same level unless it
also monitors the goodwill at that level for internal management purposes.
If the initial allocation of goodwill acquired in a business combination
cannot be completed before the end of the annual period in which the
business combination is effected, that initial allocation shall be completed
before the end of the first annual period beginning after the acquisition
date.
In accordance with IFRS 3 Business Combinations, if the initial accounting for a
business combination can be determined only provisionally by the end of the
period in which the combination is effected, the acquirer:
(a)
accounts for the combination using those provisional values; and
(b)
recognises any adjustments to those provisional values as a result of
completing the initial accounting within the measurement period,
which will not exceed twelve months from the acquisition date.
In such circumstances, it might also not be possible to complete the initial
allocation of the goodwill recognised in the combination before the end of the
annual period in which the combination is effected. When this is the case, the
entity discloses the information required by paragraph 133.
If goodwill has been allocated to a cash-generating unit and the entity
disposes of an operation within that unit, the goodwill associated with the
operation disposed of shall be:
(a)
included in the carrying amount of the operation when determining
the gain or loss on disposal; and
82
83
84
85
86
IAS 36
© IFRS Foundation
A1437

PDF File: ias-36-impairment-of-assets.pdf
Page 24:
(b)
measured on the basis of the relative values of the operation
disposed of and the portion of the cash-generating unit retained,
unless the entity can demonstrate that some other method better
reflects the goodwill associated with the operation disposed of.
Example
An entity sells for CU100 an operation that was part of a cash-generating
unit to which goodwill has been allocated. The goodwill allocated to the unit
cannot be identified or associated with an asset group at a level lower than
that unit, except arbitrarily. The recoverable amount of the portion of the
cash-generating unit retained is CU300.
Because the goodwill allocated to the cash-generating unit cannot be non-arbitrarily
identified or associated with an asset group at a level lower than that unit, the goodwill
associated with the operation disposed of is measured on the basis of the relative values
of the operation disposed of and the portion of the unit retained. Therefore, 25 per cent
of the goodwill allocated to the cash-generating unit is included in the carrying amount
of the operation that is sold.
If an entity reorganises its reporting structure in a way that changes the
composition of one or more cash-generating units to which goodwill has
been allocated, the goodwill shall be reallocated to the units affected. This
reallocation shall be performed using a relative value approach similar to
that used when an entity disposes of an operation within a cash-generating
unit, unless the entity can demonstrate that some other method better
reflects the goodwill associated with the reorganised units.
Example
Goodwill had previously been allocated to cash-generating unit A. The
goodwill allocated to A cannot be identified or associated with an asset
group at a level lower than A, except arbitrarily. A is to be divided and
integrated into three other cash-generating units, B, C and D.
Because the goodwill allocated to A cannot be non-arbitrarily identified or associated
with an asset group at a level lower than A, it is reallocated to units B, C and D on the
basis of the relative values of the three portions of A before those portions are integrated
with B, C and D.
Testing cash-generating units with goodwill for impairment
When, as described in paragraph 81, goodwill relates to a cash-generating
unit but has not been allocated to that unit, the unit shall be tested for
impairment, whenever there is an indication that the unit may be
impaired, by comparing the unit’s carrying amount, excluding any
goodwill, with its recoverable amount. Any impairment loss shall be
recognised in accordance with paragraph 104.
87
88
IAS 36
A1438
© IFRS Foundation

PDF File: ias-36-impairment-of-assets.pdf
Page 25:
If a cash-generating unit described in paragraph 88 includes in its carrying
amount an intangible asset that has an indefinite useful life or is not yet
available for use and that asset can be tested for impairment only as part of
the cash-generating unit, paragraph 10 requires the unit also to be tested for
impairment annually.
A cash-generating unit to which goodwill has been allocated shall be tested
for impairment annually, and whenever there is an indication that the unit
may be impaired, by comparing the carrying amount of the unit, including
the goodwill, with the recoverable amount of the unit. If the recoverable
amount of the unit exceeds the carrying amount of the unit, the unit and
the goodwill allocated to that unit shall be regarded as not impaired. If the
carrying amount of the unit exceeds the recoverable amount of the unit,
the entity shall recognise the impairment loss in accordance with
paragraph 104.
[Deleted]
Timing of impairment tests
The annual impairment test for a cash-generating unit to which goodwill
has been allocated may be performed at any time during an annual period,
provided the test is performed at the same time every year. Different
cash-generating units may be tested for impairment at different times.
However, if some or all of the goodwill allocated to a cash-generating unit
was acquired in a business combination during the current annual period,
that unit shall be tested for impairment before the end of the current
annual period.
If the assets constituting the cash-generating unit to which goodwill has
been allocated are tested for impairment at the same time as the unit
containing the goodwill, they shall be tested for impairment before the
unit containing the goodwill. Similarly, if the cash-generating units
constituting a group of cash-generating units to which goodwill has been
allocated are tested for impairment at the same time as the group of units
containing the goodwill, the individual units shall be tested for
impairment before the group of units containing the goodwill.
At the time of impairment testing a cash-generating unit to which goodwill
has been allocated, there may be an indication of an impairment of an asset
within the unit containing the goodwill. In such circumstances, the entity
tests the asset for impairment first, and recognises any impairment loss for
that asset before testing for impairment the cash-generating unit containing
the goodwill. Similarly, there may be an indication of an impairment of a
cash-generating unit within a group of units containing the goodwill. In such
circumstances, the entity tests the cash-generating unit for impairment first,
and recognises any impairment loss for that unit, before testing for
impairment the group of units to which the goodwill is allocated.
89
90
91–95
96
97
98
IAS 36
© IFRS Foundation
A1439

PDF File: ias-36-impairment-of-assets.pdf
Page 26:
The most recent detailed calculation made in a preceding period of the
recoverable amount of a cash-generating unit to which goodwill has been
allocated may be used in the impairment test of that unit in the current
period provided all of the following criteria are met:
(a)
the assets and liabilities making up the unit have not changed
significantly since the most recent recoverable amount calculation;
(b)
the most recent recoverable amount calculation resulted in an
amount that exceeded the carrying amount of the unit by a
substantial margin; and
(c)
based on an analysis of events that have occurred and circumstances
that have changed since the most recent recoverable amount
calculation, the likelihood that a current recoverable amount
determination would be less than the current carrying amount of
the unit is remote.
Corporate assets
Corporate assets include group or divisional assets such as the building of a
headquarters or a division of the entity, EDP equipment or a research centre.
The structure of an entity determines whether an asset meets this Standard’s
definition of corporate assets for a particular cash-generating unit. The
distinctive characteristics of corporate assets are that they do not generate
cash inflows independently of other assets or groups of assets and their
carrying amount cannot be fully attributed to the cash-generating unit under
review.
Because corporate assets do not generate separate cash inflows, the
recoverable amount of an individual corporate asset cannot be determined
unless management has decided to dispose of the asset. As a consequence, if
there is an indication that a corporate asset may be impaired, recoverable
amount 
is 
determined 
for 
the 
cash-generating 
unit 
or 
group 
of
cash-generating units to which the corporate asset belongs, and is compared
with the carrying amount of this cash-generating unit or group of
cash-generating units. Any impairment loss is recognised in accordance with
paragraph 104.
In testing a cash-generating unit for impairment, an entity shall identify all
the corporate assets that relate to the cash-generating unit under review. If
a portion of the carrying amount of a corporate asset:
(a)
can be allocated on a reasonable and consistent basis to that unit,
the entity shall compare the carrying amount of the unit, including
the portion of the carrying amount of the corporate asset allocated
to the unit, with its recoverable amount. Any impairment loss shall
be recognised in accordance with paragraph 104.
(b)
cannot be allocated on a reasonable and consistent basis to that
unit, the entity shall:
99
100
101
102
IAS 36
A1440
© IFRS Foundation

PDF File: ias-36-impairment-of-assets.pdf
Page 27:
(i)
compare the carrying amount of the unit, excluding the
corporate asset, with its recoverable amount and recognise
any impairment loss in accordance with paragraph 104;
(ii)
identify the smallest group of cash-generating units that
includes the cash-generating unit under review and to which
a portion of the carrying amount of the corporate asset can
be allocated on a reasonable and consistent basis; and
(iii)
compare 
the 
carrying 
amount 
of 
that 
group 
of
cash-generating units, including the portion of the carrying
amount of the corporate asset allocated to that group of
units, with the recoverable amount of the group of units.
Any impairment loss shall be recognised in accordance with
paragraph 104.
Illustrative Example 8 illustrates the application of these requirements to
corporate assets.
Impairment loss for a cash-generating unit
An impairment loss shall be recognised for a cash-generating unit (the
smallest group of cash-generating units to which goodwill or a corporate
asset has been allocated) if, and only if, the recoverable amount of the unit
(group of units) is less than the carrying amount of the unit (group of
units). The impairment loss shall be allocated to reduce the carrying
amount of the assets of the unit (group of units) in the following order:
(a)
first, to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the
cash-generating unit (group of units); and
(b)
then, to the other assets of the unit (group of units) pro rata on the
basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit (group of
units).
These reductions in carrying amounts shall be treated as impairment losses
on individual assets and recognised in accordance with paragraph 60.
In allocating an impairment loss in accordance with paragraph 104, an
entity shall not reduce the carrying amount of an asset below the highest
of:
(a)
its fair value less costs of disposal (if measurable);
(b)
its value in use (if determinable); and
(c)
zero.
The amount of the impairment loss that would otherwise have been
allocated to the asset shall be allocated pro rata to the other assets of the
unit (group of units).
103
104
105
IAS 36
© IFRS Foundation
A1441

PDF File: ias-36-impairment-of-assets.pdf
Page 28:
If it is not practicable to estimate the recoverable amount of each individual
asset of a cash-generating unit, this Standard requires an arbitrary allocation
of an impairment loss between the assets of that unit, other than goodwill,
because all assets of a cash-generating unit work together.
If the recoverable amount of an individual asset cannot be determined
(see paragraph 67):
(a)
an impairment loss is recognised for the asset if its carrying amount is
greater than the higher of its fair value less costs of disposal and the
results of the allocation procedures described in paragraphs 104 and
105; and
(b)
no impairment loss is recognised for the asset if the related
cash-generating unit is not impaired. This applies even if the asset’s
fair value less costs of disposal is less than its carrying amount.
Example
A machine has suffered physical damage but is still working, although not
as well as before it was damaged. The machine’s fair value less costs of
disposal is less than its carrying amount. The machine does not generate
independent cash inflows. The smallest identifiable group of assets that
includes the machine and generates cash inflows that are largely
independent of the cash inflows from other assets is the production line to
which the machine belongs. The recoverable amount of the production line
shows that the production line taken as a whole is not impaired.
Assumption 1: budgets/forecasts approved by management reflect no
commitment of management to replace the machine.
The recoverable amount of the machine alone cannot be estimated because the
machine’s value in use:
(a)
may differ from its fair value less costs of disposal; and
(b)
can be determined only for the cash-generating unit to which the machine belongs
(the production line).
The production line is not impaired. Therefore, no impairment loss is recognised for the
machine. Nevertheless, the entity may need to reassess the depreciation period or the
depreciation method for the machine. Perhaps a shorter depreciation period or a faster
depreciation method is required to reflect the expected remaining useful life of the
machine or the pattern in which economic benefits are expected to be consumed by the
entity.
continued...
106
107
IAS 36
A1442
© IFRS Foundation

PDF File: ias-36-impairment-of-assets.pdf
Page 29:
...continued
Example
Assumption 2: budgets/forecasts approved by management reflect a
commitment of management to replace the machine and sell it in the near
future. Cash flows from continuing use of the machine until its disposal are
estimated to be negligible.
The machine’s value in use can be estimated to be close to its fair value less costs of
disposal. Therefore, the recoverable amount of the machine can be determined and no
consideration is given to the cash-generating unit to which the machine belongs (ie the
production line). Because the machine’s fair value less costs of disposal is less than its
carrying amount, an impairment loss is recognised for the machine.
After the requirements in paragraphs 104 and 105 have been applied, a
liability shall be recognised for any remaining amount of an impairment
loss for a cash-generating unit if, and only if, that is required by another
IFRS.
Reversing an impairment loss
Paragraphs 110–116 set out the requirements for reversing an impairment
loss recognised for an asset or a cash-generating unit in prior periods. These
requirements use the term ‘an asset’ but apply equally to an individual asset
or a cash-generating unit. Additional requirements for an individual asset are
set out in paragraphs 117–121, for a cash-generating unit in paragraphs 122
and 123 and for goodwill in paragraphs 124 and 125.
An entity shall assess at the end of each reporting period whether there is
any indication that an impairment loss recognised in prior periods for an
asset other than goodwill may no longer exist or may have decreased. If any
such indication exists, the entity shall estimate the recoverable amount of
that asset.
In assessing whether there is any indication that an impairment loss
recognised in prior periods for an asset other than goodwill may no longer
exist or may have decreased, an entity shall consider, as a minimum, the
following indications:
External sources of information
(a)
there are observable indications that the asset’s value has increased
significantly during the period.
(b)
significant changes with a favourable effect on the entity have taken
place during the period, or will take place in the near future, in the
technological, market, economic or legal environment in which the
entity operates or in the market to which the asset is dedicated.
108
109
110
111
IAS 36
© IFRS Foundation
A1443

PDF File: ias-36-impairment-of-assets.pdf
Page 30:
(c)
market interest rates or other market rates of return on
investments have decreased during the period, and those decreases
are likely to affect the discount rate used in calculating the asset’s
value in use and increase the asset’s recoverable amount materially.
Internal sources of information
(d)
significant changes with a favourable effect on the entity have taken
place during the period, or are expected to take place in the near
future, in the extent to which, or manner in which, the asset is used
or is expected to be used. These changes include costs incurred
during the period to improve or enhance the asset’s performance or
restructure the operation to which the asset belongs.
(e)
evidence is available from internal reporting that indicates that the
economic performance of the asset is, or will be, better than
expected.
Indications of a potential decrease in an impairment loss in paragraph 111
mainly mirror the indications of a potential impairment loss in paragraph 12.
If there is an indication that an impairment loss recognised for an asset other
than goodwill may no longer exist or may have decreased, this may indicate
that the remaining useful life, the depreciation (amortisation) method or the
residual value may need to be reviewed and adjusted in accordance with the
IFRS applicable to the asset, even if no impairment loss is reversed for the
asset.
An impairment loss recognised in prior periods for an asset other than
goodwill shall be reversed if, and only if, there has been a change in the
estimates used to determine the asset’s recoverable amount since the last
impairment loss was recognised. If this is the case, the carrying amount of
the asset shall, except as described in paragraph 117, be increased to its
recoverable amount. That increase is a reversal of an impairment loss.
A reversal of an impairment loss reflects an increase in the estimated service
potential of an asset, either from use or from sale, since the date when an
entity last recognised an impairment loss for that asset. Paragraph 130
requires an entity to identify the change in estimates that causes the increase
in estimated service potential. Examples of changes in estimates include:
(a)
a change in the basis for recoverable amount (ie whether recoverable
amount is based on fair value less costs of disposal or value in use);
(b)
if recoverable amount was based on value in use, a change in the
amount or timing of estimated future cash flows or in the discount
rate; or
(c)
if recoverable amount was based on fair value less costs of disposal, a
change in estimate of the components of fair value less costs of
disposal.
112
113
114
115
IAS 36
A1444
© IFRS Foundation

PDF File: ias-36-impairment-of-assets.pdf
Page 31:
An asset’s value in use may become greater than the asset’s carrying amount
simply because the present value of future cash inflows increases as they
become closer. However, the service potential of the asset has not increased.
Therefore, an impairment loss is not reversed just because of the passage of
time (sometimes called the ‘unwinding’ of the discount), even if the
recoverable amount of the asset becomes higher than its carrying amount.
Reversing an impairment loss for an individual asset
The increased carrying amount of an asset other than goodwill attributable
to a reversal of an impairment loss shall not exceed the carrying amount
that would have been determined (net of amortisation or depreciation) had
no impairment loss been recognised for the asset in prior years.
Any increase in the carrying amount of an asset other than goodwill above the
carrying amount that would have been determined (net of amortisation or
depreciation) had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset in prior
years is a revaluation. In accounting for such a revaluation, an entity applies
the IFRS applicable to the asset.
A reversal of an impairment loss for an asset other than goodwill shall be
recognised immediately in profit or loss, unless the asset is carried at
revalued amount in accordance with another IFRS (for example, the
revaluation model in IAS 16). Any reversal of an impairment loss of a
revalued asset shall be treated as a revaluation increase in accordance with
that other IFRS.
A reversal of an impairment loss on a revalued asset is recognised in other
comprehensive income and increases the revaluation surplus for that asset.
However, to the extent that an impairment loss on the same revalued asset
was previously recognised in profit or loss, a reversal of that impairment loss
is also recognised in profit or loss.
After a reversal of an impairment loss is recognised, the depreciation
(amortisation) charge for the asset shall be adjusted in future periods to
allocate the asset’s revised carrying amount, less its residual value (if any),
on a systematic basis over its remaining useful life.
Reversing an impairment loss for a cash-generating unit
A reversal of an impairment loss for a cash-generating unit shall be
allocated to the assets of the unit, except for goodwill, pro rata with the
carrying amounts of those assets. These increases in carrying amounts shall
be treated as reversals of impairment losses for individual assets and
recognised in accordance with paragraph 119.
In allocating a reversal of an impairment loss for a cash-generating unit in
accordance with paragraph 122, the carrying amount of an asset shall not
be increased above the lower of:
(a)
its recoverable amount (if determinable); and
116
117
118
119
120
121
122
123
IAS 36
© IFRS Foundation
A1445

PDF File: ias-36-impairment-of-assets.pdf
Page 32:
(b)
the carrying amount that would have been determined (net of
amortisation or depreciation) had no impairment loss been
recognised for the asset in prior periods.
The amount of the reversal of the impairment loss that would otherwise
have been allocated to the asset shall be allocated pro rata to the other
assets of the unit, except for goodwill.
Reversing an impairment loss for goodwill
An impairment loss recognised for goodwill shall not be reversed in a
subsequent period.
IAS 38 Intangible Assets prohibits the recognition of internally generated
goodwill. Any increase in the recoverable amount of goodwill in the periods
following the recognition of an impairment loss for that goodwill is likely to
be an increase in internally generated goodwill, rather than a reversal of the
impairment loss recognised for the acquired goodwill.
Disclosure
An entity shall disclose the following for each class of assets:
(a)
the amount of impairment losses recognised in profit or loss during
the period and the line item(s) of the statement of comprehensive
income in which those impairment losses are included.
(b)
the amount of reversals of impairment losses recognised in profit or
loss during the period and the line item(s) of the statement of
comprehensive income in which those impairment losses are
reversed.
(c)
the amount of impairment losses on revalued assets recognised in
other comprehensive income during the period.
(d)
the amount of reversals of impairment losses on revalued assets
recognised in other comprehensive income during the period.
A class of assets is a grouping of assets of similar nature and use in an entity’s
operations.
The information required in paragraph 126 may be presented with other
information disclosed for the class of assets. For example, this information
may be included in a reconciliation of the carrying amount of property, plant
and equipment, at the beginning and end of the period, as required by IAS 16.
An entity that reports segment information in accordance with IFRS 8 shall
disclose the following for each reportable segment:
(a)
the amount of impairment losses recognised in profit or loss and in
other comprehensive income during the period.
(b)
the amount of reversals of impairment losses recognised in profit or
loss and in other comprehensive income during the period.
124
125
126
127
128
129
IAS 36
A1446
© IFRS Foundation

PDF File: ias-36-impairment-of-assets.pdf
Page 33:
An entity shall disclose the following for an individual asset (including
goodwill) or a cash-generating unit, for which an impairment loss has been
recognised or reversed during the period:
(a)
the events and circumstances that led to the recognition or reversal
of the impairment loss.
(b)
the amount of the impairment loss recognised or reversed.
(c)
for an individual asset:
(i)
the nature of the asset; and
(ii)
if the entity reports segment information in accordance with
IFRS 8, the reportable segment to which the asset belongs.
(d)
for a cash-generating unit:
(i)
a description of the cash-generating unit (such as whether it
is a product line, a plant, a business operation, a
geographical area, or a reportable segment as defined in
IFRS 8);
(ii)
the amount of the impairment loss recognised or reversed by
class of assets and, if the entity reports segment information
in accordance with IFRS 8, by reportable segment; and
(iii)
if 
the 
aggregation 
of 
assets 
for 
identifying 
the
cash-generating unit has changed since the previous estimate
of the cash-generating unit’s recoverable amount (if any), a
description of the current and former way of aggregating
assets 
and 
the 
reasons 
for 
changing 
the 
way 
the
cash-generating unit is identified.
(e)
the recoverable amount of the asset (cash-generating unit) and
whether the recoverable amount of the asset (cash-generating unit)
is its fair value less costs of disposal or its value in use.
(f)
if the recoverable amount is fair value less costs of disposal, the
entity shall disclose the following information:
(i)
the level of the fair value hierarchy (see IFRS 13) within
which 
the 
fair 
value 
measurement 
of 
the 
asset
(cash-generating unit) is categorised in its entirety (without
taking into account whether the ‘costs of disposal’ are
observable);
(ii)
for fair value measurements categorised within Level 2 and
Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy, a description of the
valuation technique(s) used to measure fair value less costs of
disposal. If there has been a change in valuation technique,
the entity shall disclose that change and the reason(s) for
making it; and
130
IAS 36
© IFRS Foundation
A1447

PDF File: ias-36-impairment-of-assets.pdf
Page 34:
(iii)
for fair value measurements categorised within Level 2 and
Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy, each key assumption on
which management has based its determination of fair value
less costs of disposal. Key assumptions are those to which the
asset’s (cash-generating unit’s) recoverable amount is most
sensitive. The entity shall also disclose the discount rate(s)
used in the current measurement and previous measurement
if fair value less costs of disposal is measured using a present
value technique.
(g)
if recoverable amount is value in use, the discount rate(s) used in
the current estimate and previous estimate (if any) of value in use.
An entity shall disclose the following information for the aggregate
impairment losses and the aggregate reversals of impairment losses
recognised during the period for which no information is disclosed in
accordance with paragraph 130:
(a)
the main classes of assets affected by impairment losses and the
main classes of assets affected by reversals of impairment losses.
(b)
the main events and circumstances that led to the recognition of
these impairment losses and reversals of impairment losses.
An entity is encouraged to disclose assumptions used to determine the
recoverable amount of assets (cash-generating units) during the period.
However, paragraph 134 requires an entity to disclose information about the
estimates used to measure the recoverable amount of a cash-generating unit
when goodwill or an intangible asset with an indefinite useful life is included
in the carrying amount of that unit.
If, in accordance with paragraph 84, any portion of the goodwill acquired
in a business combination during the period has not been allocated to a
cash-generating unit (group of units) at the end of the reporting period, the
amount of the unallocated goodwill shall be disclosed together with the
reasons why that amount remains unallocated.
Estimates used to measure recoverable amounts of
cash-generating units containing goodwill or
intangible assets with indefinite useful lives
An entity shall disclose the information required by (a)–(f) for
each cash-generating unit (group of units) for which the carrying
amount 
of 
goodwill 
or 
intangible 
assets 
with 
indefinite 
useful
lives allocated to that unit (group of units) is significant in comparison with
the entity’s total carrying amount of goodwill or intangible assets with
indefinite useful lives: 
(a)
the carrying amount of goodwill allocated to the unit (group of
units).
(b)
the carrying amount of intangible assets with indefinite useful lives
allocated to the unit (group of units).
131
132
133
134
IAS 36
A1448
© IFRS Foundation

PDF File: ias-36-impairment-of-assets.pdf
Page 35:
(c)
the basis on which the unit’s (group of units’) recoverable
amount has been determined (ie value in use or fair value less costs
of disposal).
(d)
if the unit’s (group of units’) recoverable amount is based on value
in use:
(i)
each key assumption on which management has based its
cash flow projections for the period covered by the most
recent budgets/forecasts. Key assumptions are those to which
the unit’s (group of units’) recoverable amount is most
sensitive.
(ii)
a description of management’s approach to determining the
value(s) assigned to each key assumption, whether those
value(s) reflect past experience or, if appropriate, are
consistent with external sources of information, and, if not,
how and why they differ from past experience or external
sources of information.
(iii)
the period over which management has projected cash flows
based 
on 
financial 
budgets/forecasts 
approved 
by
management and, when a period greater than five years is
used for a cash-generating unit (group of units), an
explanation of why that longer period is justified.
(iv)
the growth rate used to extrapolate cash flow projections
beyond the period covered by the most recent budgets/
forecasts, and the justification for using any growth rate that
exceeds the long-term average growth rate for the products,
industries, or country or countries in which the entity
operates, or for the market to which the unit (group of units)
is dedicated.
(v)
the discount rate(s) applied to the cash flow projections.
(e)
if the unit’s (group of units’) recoverable amount is based on fair
value less costs of disposal, the valuation technique(s) used to
measure fair value less costs of disposal. An entity is not required to
provide the disclosures required by IFRS 13. If fair value less costs of
disposal is not measured using a quoted price for an identical unit
(group of units), an entity shall disclose the following information:
(i)
each key assumption on which management has based its
determination of fair value less costs of disposal. Key
assumptions are those to which the unit’s (group of units’)
recoverable amount is most sensitive.
(ii)
a description of management’s approach to determining the
value (or values) assigned to each key assumption, whether
those values reflect past experience or, if appropriate, are
consistent with external sources of information, and, if not,
IAS 36
© IFRS Foundation
A1449

PDF File: ias-36-impairment-of-assets.pdf
Page 36:
how and why they differ from past experience or external
sources of information.
(iiA)
the level of the fair value hierarchy (see IFRS 13) within
which the fair value measurement is categorised in its
entirety (without giving regard to the observability of ‘costs
of disposal’).
(iiB)
if there has been a change in valuation technique, the change
and the reason(s) for making it.
If fair value less costs of disposal is measured using discounted cash
flow projections, an entity shall disclose the following information:
(iii)
the period over which management has projected cash flows.
(iv)
the growth rate used to extrapolate cash flow projections.
(v)
the discount rate(s) applied to the cash flow projections.
(f)
if a reasonably possible change in a key assumption on which
management has based its determination of the unit’s (group of
units’) recoverable amount would cause the unit’s (group of units’)
carrying amount to exceed its recoverable amount:
(i)
the amount by which the unit’s (group of units’) recoverable
amount exceeds its carrying amount.
(ii)
the value assigned to the key assumption.
(iii)
the amount by which the value assigned to the key
assumption 
must 
change, 
after 
incorporating 
any
consequential effects of that change on the other variables
used to measure recoverable amount, in order for the unit’s
(group of units’) recoverable amount to be equal to its
carrying amount.
If some or all of the carrying amount of goodwill or intangible assets with
indefinite useful lives is allocated across multiple cash-generating units
(groups of units), and the amount so allocated to each unit (group of units)
is not significant in comparison with the entity’s total carrying amount of
goodwill or intangible assets with indefinite useful lives, that fact shall be
disclosed, together with the aggregate carrying amount of goodwill or
intangible assets with indefinite useful lives allocated to those units
(groups of units). In addition, if the recoverable amounts of any of those
units (groups of units) are based on the same key assumption(s) and the
aggregate carrying amount of goodwill or intangible assets with indefinite
useful lives allocated to them is significant in comparison with the entity’s
total carrying amount of goodwill or intangible assets with indefinite
useful lives, an entity shall disclose that fact, together with:
(a)
the aggregate carrying amount of goodwill allocated to those units
(groups of units).
135
IAS 36
A1450
© IFRS Foundation

PDF File: ias-36-impairment-of-assets.pdf
Page 37:
(b)
the aggregate carrying amount of intangible assets with indefinite
useful lives allocated to those units (groups of units).
(c)
a description of the key assumption(s).
(d)
a description of management’s approach to determining the value(s)
assigned to the key assumption(s), whether those value(s) reflect past
experience or, if appropriate, are consistent with external sources of
information, and, if not, how and why they differ from past
experience or external sources of information.
(e)
if a reasonably possible change in the key assumption(s) would cause
the aggregate of the units’ (groups of units’) carrying amounts to
exceed the aggregate of their recoverable amounts:
(i)
the amount by which the aggregate of the units’ (groups of
units’) recoverable amounts exceeds the aggregate of their
carrying amounts.
(ii)
the value(s) assigned to the key assumption(s).
(iii)
the amount by which the value(s) assigned to the key
assumption(s) 
must 
change, 
after 
incorporating 
any
consequential effects of the change on the other variables
used to measure recoverable amount, in order for the
aggregate of the units’ (groups of units’) recoverable
amounts to be equal to the aggregate of their carrying
amounts.
The most recent detailed calculation made in a preceding period of the
recoverable amount of a cash-generating unit (group of units) may, in
accordance with paragraph 24 or 99, be carried forward and used in the
impairment test for that unit (group of units) in the current period provided
specified criteria are met. When this is the case, the information for that unit
(group of units) that is incorporated into the disclosures required by
paragraphs 134 and 135 relate to the carried forward calculation of
recoverable amount.
Illustrative Example 9 illustrates the disclosures required by paragraphs 134
and 135.
Transition provisions and effective date
[Deleted]
An entity shall apply this Standard:
(a)
to goodwill and intangible assets acquired in business combinations for
which the agreement date is on or after 31 March 2004; and
(b)
to all other assets prospectively from the beginning of the first annual
period beginning on or after 31 March 2004.
136
137
138
139
IAS 36
© IFRS Foundation
A1451

PDF File: ias-36-impairment-of-assets.pdf
Page 38:
Entities to which paragraph 139 applies are encouraged to apply the
requirements of this Standard before the effective dates specified in
paragraph 139. However, if an entity applies this Standard before those
effective dates, it also shall apply IFRS 3 and IAS 38 (as revised in 2004) at the
same time.
IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements (as revised in 2007) amended the
terminology used throughout IFRSs. In addition it amended paragraphs 61,
120, 126 and 129. An entity shall apply those amendments for annual periods
beginning on or after 1 January 2009. If an entity applies IAS 1 (revised 2007)
for an earlier period, the amendments shall be applied for that earlier period.
IFRS 3 (as revised in 2008) amended paragraphs 65, 81, 85 and 139, deleted
paragraphs 91–95 and 138 and added Appendix C. An entity shall apply those
amendments for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009. If an entity
applies IFRS 3 (revised 2008) for an earlier period, the amendments shall also
be applied for that earlier period.
Paragraph 134(e) was amended by Improvements to IFRSs issued in May 2008. An
entity shall apply that amendment for annual periods beginning on or after
1 January 2009. Earlier application is permitted. If an entity applies the
amendment for an earlier period it shall disclose that fact.
Cost of an Investment in a Subsidiary, Jointly Controlled Entity or Associate
(Amendments to IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting
Standards and IAS 27), issued in May 2008, added paragraph 12(h). An entity
shall apply that amendment prospectively for annual periods beginning on or
after 1 January 2009. Earlier application is permitted. If an entity applies the
related amendments in paragraphs 4 and 38A of IAS 27 for an earlier period, it
shall apply the amendment in paragraph 12(h) at the same time.
Improvements to IFRSs issued in April 2009 amended paragraph 80(b). An entity
shall apply that amendment prospectively for annual periods beginning on or
after 1 January 2010. Earlier application is permitted. If an entity applies the
amendment for an earlier period it shall disclose that fact.
[Deleted]
[Deleted]
IFRS 10 and IFRS 11, issued in May 2011, amended paragraph 4, the heading
above paragraph 12(h) and paragraph 12(h). An entity shall apply those
amendments when it applies IFRS 10 and IFRS 11.
IFRS 13, issued in May 2011, amended paragraphs 5, 6, 12, 20, 22, 28, 78, 105,
111, 130 and 134, deleted paragraphs 25–27 and added paragraph 53A. An
entity shall apply those amendments when it applies IFRS 13.
In May 2013 paragraphs 130 and 134 and the heading above paragraph 138
were amended. An entity shall apply those amendments retrospectively for
annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014. Earlier application is
permitted. An entity shall not apply those amendments in periods (including
comparative periods) in which it does not also apply IFRS 13.
140
140A
140B
140C
140D
140E
140F
140G
140H
140I
140J
IAS 36
A1452
© IFRS Foundation

PDF File: ias-36-impairment-of-assets.pdf
Page 39:
[Deleted]
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers, issued in May 2014, amended
paragraph 2. An entity shall apply that amendment when it applies IFRS 15.
IFRS 9, as issued in July 2014, amended paragraphs 2, 4 and 5 and deleted
paragraphs 140F, 140G and 140K. An entity shall apply those amendments
when it applies IFRS 9.
IFRS 17, issued in May 2017, amended paragraph 2. Amendments to IFRS 17,
issued in June 2020, further amended paragraph 2. An entity shall apply that
amendment when it applies IFRS 17.
Withdrawal of IAS 36 (issued 1998)
This Standard supersedes IAS 36 Impairment of Assets (issued in 1998).
140K
140L
140M
140N
141
IAS 36
© IFRS Foundation
A1453

PDF File: ias-36-impairment-of-assets.pdf
Page 40:
Appendix A
Using present value techniques to measure value in use
This appendix is an integral part of the Standard. It provides guidance on the use of present value
techniques in measuring value in use. Although the guidance uses the term ‘asset’, it equally applies to
a group of assets forming a cash-generating unit.
The components of a present value measurement
The following elements together capture the economic differences between
assets:
(a)
an estimate of the future cash flow, or in more complex cases, series of
future cash flows the entity expects to derive from the asset;
(b)
expectations about possible variations in the amount or timing of
those cash flows;
(c)
the time value of money, represented by the current market risk-free
rate of interest;
(d)
the price for bearing the uncertainty inherent in the asset; and
(e)
other, sometimes unidentifiable, factors (such as illiquidity) that
market participants would reflect in pricing the future cash flows the
entity expects to derive from the asset.
This appendix contrasts two approaches to computing present value, either of
which may be used to estimate the value in use of an asset, depending on the
circumstances. Under the ‘traditional’ approach, adjustments for factors
(b)–(e) described in paragraph A1 are embedded in the discount rate. Under
the ‘expected cash flow’ approach, factors (b), (d) and (e) cause adjustments in
arriving at risk-adjusted expected cash flows. Whichever approach an entity
adopts to reflect expectations about possible variations in the amount or
timing of future cash flows, the result should be to reflect the expected
present value of the future cash flows, ie the weighted average of all possible
outcomes.
General principles
The techniques used to estimate future cash flows and interest rates will vary
from one situation to another depending on the circumstances surrounding
the asset in question. However, the following general principles govern any
application of present value techniques in measuring assets:
(a)
interest rates used to discount cash flows should reflect assumptions
that are consistent with those inherent in the estimated cash flows.
Otherwise, the effect of some assumptions will be double-counted or
ignored. For example, a discount rate of 12 per cent might be applied
to contractual cash flows of a loan receivable. That rate reflects
expectations about future defaults from loans with particular
characteristics. That same 12 per cent rate should not be used to
A1
A2
A3
IAS 36
A1454
© IFRS Foundation

PDF File: ias-36-impairment-of-assets.pdf
Page 41:
discount expected cash flows because those cash flows already reflect
assumptions about future defaults.
(b)
estimated cash flows and discount rates should be free from both
bias and factors unrelated to the asset in question. For example,
deliberately understating estimated net cash flows to enhance the
apparent future profitability of an asset introduces a bias into the
measurement.
(c)
estimated cash flows or discount rates should reflect the range of
possible outcomes rather than a single most likely, minimum or
maximum possible amount.
Traditional and expected cash flow approaches to present
value
Traditional approach
Accounting applications of present value have traditionally used a single set of
estimated cash flows and a single discount rate, often described as ‘the rate
commensurate with the risk’. In effect, the traditional approach assumes that
a single discount rate convention can incorporate all the expectations about
the future cash flows and the appropriate risk premium. Therefore, the
traditional approach places most of the emphasis on selection of the discount
rate.
In some circumstances, such as those in which comparable assets can be
observed in the marketplace, a traditional approach is relatively easy to apply.
For assets with contractual cash flows, it is consistent with the manner in
which marketplace participants describe assets, as in ‘a 12 per cent bond’.
However, the traditional approach may not appropriately address some
complex measurement problems, such as the measurement of non-financial
assets for which no market for the item or a comparable item exists. A proper
search for ‘the rate commensurate with the risk’ requires analysis of at least
two items—an asset that exists in the marketplace and has an observed
interest rate and the asset being measured. The appropriate discount rate for
the cash flows being measured must be inferred from the observable rate of
interest in that other asset. To draw that inference, the characteristics of the
other asset’s cash flows must be similar to those of the asset being measured.
Therefore, the measurer must do the following:
(a)
identify the set of cash flows that will be discounted;
(b)
identify another asset in the marketplace that appears to have similar
cash flow characteristics;
(c)
compare the cash flow sets from the two items to ensure that they are
similar (for example, are both sets contractual cash flows, or is one
contractual and the other an estimated cash flow?);
(d)
evaluate whether there is an element in one item that is not present in
the other (for example, is one less liquid than the other?); and
A4
A5
A6
IAS 36
© IFRS Foundation
A1455

PDF File: ias-36-impairment-of-assets.pdf
Page 42:
(e)
evaluate whether both sets of cash flows are likely to behave (ie vary)
in a similar fashion in changing economic conditions.
Expected cash flow approach
The expected cash flow approach is, in some situations, a more effective
measurement tool than the traditional approach. In developing a
measurement, the expected cash flow approach uses all expectations about
possible cash flows instead of the single most likely cash flow. For example, a
cash flow might be CU100, CU200 or CU300 with probabilities of 10 per cent,
60 per cent and 30 per cent, respectively. The expected cash flow is CU220.
The expected cash flow approach thus differs from the traditional approach by
focusing on direct analysis of the cash flows in question and on more explicit
statements of the assumptions used in the measurement.
The expected cash flow approach also allows use of present value techniques
when the timing of cash flows is uncertain. For example, a cash flow of
CU1,000 may be received in one year, two years or three years with
probabilities of 10 per cent, 60 per cent and 30 per cent, respectively. The
example below shows the computation of expected present value in that
situation.
Present value of CU1,000 in 1 year at 5%
CU952.38
Probability
10.00% 
CU95.24
Present value of CU1,000 in 2 years at 5.25%
CU902.73 
Probability
60.00% 
CU541.64
Present value of CU1,000 in 3 years at 5.50%
CU851.61 
Probability
30.00% 
CU255.48
Expected present value
 
CU892.36
The expected present value of CU892.36 differs from the traditional notion of
a best estimate of CU902.73 (the 60 per cent probability). A traditional present
value computation applied to this example requires a decision about which of
the possible timings of cash flows to use and, accordingly, would not reflect
the probabilities of other timings. This is because the discount rate in a
traditional present value computation cannot reflect uncertainties in timing.
The use of probabilities is an essential element of the expected cash flow
approach. Some question whether assigning probabilities to highly subjective
estimates suggests greater precision than, in fact, exists. However, the proper
application of the traditional approach (as described in paragraph A6) requires
the same estimates and subjectivity without providing the computational
transparency of the expected cash flow approach.
Many estimates developed in current practice already incorporate the
elements of expected cash flows informally. In addition, accountants often
face the need to measure an asset using limited information about the
probabilities of possible cash flows. For example, an accountant might be
confronted with the following situations:
A7
A8
A9
A10
A11
IAS 36
A1456
© IFRS Foundation

PDF File: ias-36-impairment-of-assets.pdf
Page 43:
(a)
the estimated amount falls somewhere between CU50 and CU250, but
no amount in the range is more likely than any other amount. Based
on that limited information, the estimated expected cash flow is
CU150 [(50 + 250)/2].
(b)
the estimated amount falls somewhere between CU50 and CU250, and
the most likely amount is CU100. However, the probabilities attached
to each amount are unknown. Based on that limited information, the
estimated expected cash flow is CU133.33 [(50 + 100 + 250)/3].
(c)
the estimated amount will be CU50 (10 per cent probability), CU250
(30 per cent probability), or CU100 (60 per cent probability). Based on
that limited information, the estimated expected cash flow is
CU140 [(50 × 0.10) + (250 × 0.30) + (100 × 0.60)].
In each case, the estimated expected cash flow is likely to provide a better
estimate of value in use than the minimum, most likely or maximum amount
taken alone.
The application of an expected cash flow approach is subject to a cost-benefit
constraint. In some cases, an entity may have access to extensive data and may
be able to develop many cash flow scenarios. In other cases, an entity may not
be able to develop more than general statements about the variability of cash
flows without incurring substantial cost. The entity needs to balance the cost
of obtaining additional information against the additional reliability that
information will bring to the measurement.
Some maintain that expected cash flow techniques are inappropriate for
measuring a single item or an item with a limited number of possible
outcomes. They offer an example of an asset with two possible outcomes: a
90 per cent probability that the cash flow will be CU10 and a 10 per cent
probability that the cash flow will be CU1,000. They observe that the expected
cash flow in that example is CU109 and criticise that result as not
representing either of the amounts that may ultimately be paid.
Assertions like the one just outlined reflect underlying disagreement with the
measurement objective. If the objective is accumulation of costs to be
incurred, expected cash flows may not produce a representationally faithful
estimate of the expected cost. However, this Standard is concerned with
measuring the recoverable amount of an asset. The recoverable amount of the
asset in this example is not likely to be CU10, even though that is the most
likely cash flow. This is because a measurement of CU10 does not incorporate
the uncertainty of the cash flow in the measurement of the asset. Instead, the
uncertain cash flow is presented as if it were a certain cash flow. No rational
entity would sell an asset with these characteristics for CU10.
Discount rate
Whichever approach an entity adopts for measuring the value in use of an
asset, interest rates used to discount cash flows should not reflect risks for
which the estimated cash flows have been adjusted. Otherwise, the effect of
some assumptions will be double-counted.
A12
A13
A14
A15
IAS 36
© IFRS Foundation
A1457

PDF File: ias-36-impairment-of-assets.pdf
Page 44:
When an asset-specific rate is not directly available from the market, an entity
uses surrogates to estimate the discount rate. The purpose is to estimate, as
far as possible, a market assessment of:
(a)
the time value of money for the periods until the end of the asset’s
useful life; and
(b)
factors (b), (d) and (e) described in paragraph A1, to the extent those
factors have not caused adjustments in arriving at estimated cash
flows.
As a starting point in making such an estimate, the entity might take into
account the following rates:
(a)
the entity’s weighted average cost of capital determined using
techniques such as the Capital Asset Pricing Model;
(b)
the entity’s incremental borrowing rate; and
(c)
other market borrowing rates.
However, these rates must be adjusted:
(a)
to reflect the way that the market would assess the specific risks
associated with the asset’s estimated cash flows; and
(b)
to exclude risks that are not relevant to the asset’s estimated cash
flows or for which the estimated cash flows have been adjusted.
Consideration should be given to risks such as country risk, currency risk and
price risk.
The discount rate is independent of the entity’s capital structure and the way
the entity financed the purchase of the asset, because the future cash flows
expected to arise from an asset do not depend on the way in which the entity
financed the purchase of the asset.
Paragraph 55 requires the discount rate used to be a pre-tax rate. Therefore,
when the basis used to estimate the discount rate is post-tax, that basis is
adjusted to reflect a pre-tax rate.
An entity normally uses a single discount rate for the estimate of an asset’s
value in use. However, an entity uses separate discount rates for different
future periods where value in use is sensitive to a difference in risks for
different periods or to the term structure of interest rates.
A16
A17
A18
A19
A20
A21
IAS 36
A1458
© IFRS Foundation

PDF File: ias-36-impairment-of-assets.pdf
Page 45:
Appendix B
Amendment to IAS 16
The amendment in this appendix shall be applied when an entity applies IAS 16 Property, Plant and
Equipment (as revised in 2003). It is superseded when IAS 36 Impairment of Assets (as revised in
2004) becomes effective. This appendix replaces the consequential amendments made by IAS 16 (as
revised in 2003) to IAS 36 Impairment of Assets (issued in 1998). IAS 36 (as revised in 2004)
incorporates the requirements of the paragraphs in this appendix. Consequently, the amendments
from IAS 16 (as revised in 2003) are not necessary once an entity is subject to IAS 36 (as revised in
2004). Accordingly, this appendix is applicable only to entities that elect to apply IAS 16 (as revised in
2003) before its effective date.
* * * * *
The text of this appendix has been omitted from this volume.
IAS 36
© IFRS Foundation
A1459

PDF File: ias-36-impairment-of-assets.pdf
Page 46:
Appendix C
Impairment testing cash-generating units with goodwill and
non-controlling interests
This appendix is an integral part of the Standard.
In accordance with IFRS 3 (as revised in 2008), the acquirer measures and
recognises goodwill as of the acquisition date as the excess of (a) over (b)
below:
(a)
the aggregate of:
(i)
the consideration transferred measured in accordance with
IFRS 3, which generally requires acquisition-date fair value;
(ii)
the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree
measured in accordance with IFRS 3; and
(iii)
in 
a 
business 
combination 
achieved 
in 
stages, 
the
acquisition-date fair value of the acquirer’s previously held
equity interest in the acquiree.
(b)
the net of the acquisition-date amounts of the identifiable assets
acquired and liabilities assumed measured in accordance with IFRS 3.
Allocation of goodwill
Paragraph 80 of this Standard requires goodwill acquired in a business
combination to be allocated to each of the acquirer’s cash-generating units, or
groups of cash-generating units, expected to benefit from the synergies of the
combination, irrespective of whether other assets or liabilities of the acquiree
are assigned to those units, or groups of units. It is possible that some of the
synergies resulting from a business combination will be allocated to a
cash-generating unit in which the non-controlling interest does not have an
interest.
Testing for impairment
Testing for impairment involves comparing the recoverable amount of a
cash-generating unit with the carrying amount of the cash-generating unit.
If an entity measures non-controlling interests as its proportionate interest in
the net identifiable assets of a subsidiary at the acquisition date, rather than
at fair value, goodwill attributable to non-controlling interests is included in
the recoverable amount of the related cash-generating unit but is not
recognised in the parent’s consolidated financial statements. As a
consequence, an entity shall gross up the carrying amount of goodwill
allocated to the unit to include the goodwill attributable to the
non-controlling interest. This adjusted carrying amount is then compared
with the recoverable amount of the unit to determine whether the
cash-generating unit is impaired.
C1
C2
C3
C4
IAS 36
A1460
© IFRS Foundation

PDF File: ias-36-impairment-of-assets.pdf
Page 47:
Allocating an impairment loss
Paragraph 104 requires any identified impairment loss to be allocated first to
reduce the carrying amount of goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the
other assets of the unit pro rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each
asset in the unit.
If a subsidiary, or part of a subsidiary, with a non-controlling interest is itself a
cash-generating unit, the impairment loss is allocated between the parent and
the non-controlling interest on the same basis as that on which profit or loss
is allocated.
If a subsidiary, or part of a subsidiary, with a non-controlling interest is part
of a larger cash-generating unit, goodwill impairment losses are allocated to
the parts of the cash-generating unit that have a non-controlling interest and
the parts that do not. The impairment losses should be allocated to the parts
of the cash-generating unit on the basis of:
(a)
to the extent that the impairment relates to goodwill in the
cash-generating unit, the relative carrying values of the goodwill of the
parts before the impairment; and
(b)
to the extent that the impairment relates to identifiable assets in the
cash-generating unit, the relative carrying values of the net identifiable
assets of the parts before the impairment. Any such impairment is
allocated to the assets of the parts of each unit pro rata on the basis of
the carrying amount of each asset in the part.
In those parts that have a non-controlling interest, the impairment loss is
allocated between the parent and the non-controlling interest on the same
basis as that on which profit or loss is allocated.
If an impairment loss attributable to a non-controlling interest relates to
goodwill that is not recognised in the parent’s consolidated financial
statements (see paragraph C4), that impairment is not recognised as a
goodwill impairment loss. In such cases, only the impairment loss relating to
the goodwill that is allocated to the parent is recognised as a goodwill
impairment loss.
Illustrative 
Example 
7 
illustrates 
the 
impairment 
testing 
of 
a
non-wholly-owned cash-generating unit with goodwill.
C5
C6
C7
C8
C9
IAS 36
© IFRS Foundation
A1461

PDF File: ias-36-impairment-of-assets.pdf
Page 48:
Approval by the Board of IAS 36 issued in March 2004
International Accounting Standard 36 Impairment of Assets (as revised in 2004) was
approved for issue by eleven of the fourteen members of the International Accounting
Standards Board. Messrs Cope and Leisenring and Professor Whittington dissented. Their
dissenting opinions are set out after the Basis for Conclusions.
Sir David Tweedie
Chairman
Thomas E Jones
Vice-Chairman
Mary E Barth
Hans-Georg Bruns
Anthony T Cope
Robert P Garnett
Gilbert Gélard
James J Leisenring
Warren J McGregor
Patricia L O’Malley
Harry K Schmid
John T Smith
Geoffrey Whittington
Tatsumi Yamada
IAS 36
A1462
© IFRS Foundation

PDF File: ias-36-impairment-of-assets.pdf
Page 49:
Approval by the Board of Recoverable Amount Disclosures for
Non-Financial Assets (Amendments to IAS 36) issued in May 2013
Recoverable Amount Disclosures for Non-Financial Assets was approved for issue by fifteen
members of the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB). Mr Kabureck abstained
from voting in view of his recent appointment to the IASB.
Hans Hoogervorst
Chairman
Ian Mackintosh
Vice-Chairman
Stephen Cooper
Philippe Danjou
Martin Edelmann
Jan Engström
Patrick Finnegan
Amaro Luiz de Oliveira Gomes
Gary Kabureck
Prabhakar Kalavacherla
Patricia McConnell
Takatsugu Ochi
Darrel Scott
Chungwoo Suh
Mary Tokar
Wei-Guo Zhang
IAS 36
© IFRS Foundation
A1463

PDF File: ias-36-impairment-of-assets.pdf
Page 50:

