PDF File: ifrs-3-business-combinations.pdf
Page 1:
IFRS 3
Business Combinations
In April 2001 the International Accounting Standards Board (Board) adopted
IAS 22 Business Combinations, which had originally been issued by the International
Accounting Standards Committee in October 1998. IAS 22 was itself a revised version of
IAS 22 Business Combinations that was issued in November 1983.
In March 2004 the Board replaced IAS 22 and three related Interpretations (SIC-9 Business
Combinations—Classification either as Acquisitions or Unitings of Interests, SIC-22 Business
Combinations—Subsequent 
Adjustment 
of 
Fair 
Values 
and 
Goodwill 
Initially
Reported and SIC-28 Business Combinations—‘Date of Exchange’ and Fair Value of Equity
Instruments) when it issued IFRS 3 Business Combinations.
Minor amendments were made to IFRS 3 in March 2004 by IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held
for Sale and Discontinued Operations and IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements (as revised in
September 2007), which amended the terminology used throughout the Standards,
including IFRS 3.
In January 2008 the Board issued a revised IFRS 3. Please refer to Background Information in
the Basis for Conclusions on IFRS 3 for a fuller description of those revisions.
In October 2018, the Board amended IFRS 3 by issuing Definition of a Business (Amendments
to IFRS 3). This amended IFRS 3 to narrow and clarify the definition of a business, and to
permit a simplified assessment of whether an acquired set of activities and assets is a
group of assets rather than a business.
In May 2020, the Board amended IFRS 3 by issuing Reference to the Conceptual Framework.
This updated a reference in IFRS 3 and made further amendments to avoid unintended
consequences of updating the reference.
Other Standards have made minor consequential amendments to IFRS 3. They
include Improvements to IFRSs (issued in May 2010), IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial
Statements (issued May 2011), IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement (issued May 2011), Investment
Entities (Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 27) (issued October 2012),
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments (Hedge Accounting and amendments to IFRS 9, IFRS 7 and
IAS 39) (issued November 2013), Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2010–2012 Cycle (issued
December 2013), Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2011–2013 Cycle (issued December 2013),
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers (issued May 2014), IFRS 9 Financial
Instruments (issued July 2014), IFRS 16 Leases (issued January 2016), IFRS 17 Insurance
Contracts (issued May 2017), Annual Improvements to IFRS Standards 2015–2017 Cycle (issued
December 2017), Amendments to References to the Conceptual Framework in IFRS
Standards (issued March 2018) and Amendments to IFRS 17 (issued June 2020).
IFRS 3
© IFRS Foundation
A191

PDF File: ifrs-3-business-combinations.pdf
Page 2:
CONTENTS
from paragraph
INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARD 3 
BUSINESS COMBINATIONS
OBJECTIVE
1
SCOPE
2
IDENTIFYING A BUSINESS COMBINATION
3
THE ACQUISITION METHOD
4
Identifying the acquirer
6
Determining the acquisition date
8
Recognising and measuring the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities
assumed and any non-controlling interest in the acquiree
10
Recognising and measuring goodwill or a gain from a bargain purchase
32
Additional guidance for applying the acquisition method to particular types
of business combinations
41
Measurement period
45
Determining what is part of the business combination transaction
51
SUBSEQUENT MEASUREMENT AND ACCOUNTING
54
Reacquired rights
55
Contingent liabilities
56
Indemnification assets
57
Contingent consideration
58
DISCLOSURES
59
EFFECTIVE DATE AND TRANSITION
64
Effective date
64
Transition
65
REFERENCE TO IFRS 9
67A
WITHDRAWAL OF IFRS 3 (2004)
68
APPENDICES
A Defined terms
B Application guidance
C Amendments to other IFRSs
APPROVAL BY THE BOARD OF IFRS 3 ISSUED IN JANUARY 2008
APPROVAL BY THE BOARD OF DEFINITION OF A BUSINESS ISSUED IN
OCTOBER 2018
APPROVAL BY THE BOARD OF REFERENCE TO THE CONCEPTUAL
FRAMEWORK ISSUED IN MAY 2020
FOR THE ACCOMPANYING GUIDANCE LISTED BELOW, SEE PART B OF THIS EDITION
ILLUSTRATIVE EXAMPLES
continued...
IFRS 3
A192
© IFRS Foundation

PDF File: ifrs-3-business-combinations.pdf
Page 3:
...continued
APPENDIX
Amendments to guidance on other IFRSs
FOR THE BASIS FOR CONCLUSIONS, SEE PART C OF THIS EDITION
BASIS FOR CONCLUSIONS
APPENDIX TO THE BASIS FOR CONCLUSIONS
Amendments to the Basis for Conclusions on other IFRSs
DISSENTING OPINIONS
IFRS 3
© IFRS Foundation
A193

PDF File: ifrs-3-business-combinations.pdf
Page 4:
International Financial Reporting Standard 3 Business Combinations (IFRS 3) is set out
in paragraphs 1–68 and Appendices A–C. All the paragraphs have equal authority.
Paragraphs in bold type state the main principles. Terms defined in Appendix A are
in italics the first time they appear in the IFRS. Definitions of other terms are given in
the Glossary for International Financial Reporting Standards. IFRS 3 should be read in
the context of its objective and the Basis for Conclusions, the Preface to IFRS
Standards and the Conceptual Framework for Financial Reporting. IAS 8 Accounting Policies,
Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors provides a basis for selecting and applying
accounting policies in the absence of explicit guidance.
IFRS 3
A194
© IFRS Foundation

PDF File: ifrs-3-business-combinations.pdf
Page 5:
International Financial Reporting Standard 3
Business Combinations
Objective
The objective of this IFRS is to improve the relevance, reliability and
comparability of the information that a reporting entity provides in its
financial statements about a business combination and its effects. To accomplish
that, this IFRS establishes principles and requirements for how the acquirer:
(a)
recognises and measures in its financial statements the identifiable
assets acquired, the liabilities assumed and any non-controlling interest in
the acquiree;
(b)
recognises and measures the goodwill acquired in the business
combination or a gain from a bargain purchase; and
(c)
determines what information to disclose to enable users of the
financial statements to evaluate the nature and financial effects of the
business combination.
Scope
This IFRS applies to a transaction or other event that meets the definition of a
business combination. This IFRS does not apply to:
(a)
the accounting for the formation of a joint arrangement in the
financial statements of the joint arrangement itself.
(b)
the acquisition of an asset or a group of assets that does not constitute
a business. In such cases the acquirer shall identify and recognise the
individual identifiable assets acquired (including those assets that meet
the definition of, and recognition criteria for, intangible assets in IAS 38
Intangible Assets) and liabilities assumed. The cost of the group shall be
allocated to the individual identifiable assets and liabilities on the basis
of their relative fair values at the date of purchase. Such a transaction or
event does not give rise to goodwill.
(c)
a combination of entities or businesses under common control
(paragraphs B1–B4 provide related application guidance).
The requirements of this Standard do not apply to the acquisition by an
investment entity, as defined in IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements, of an
investment in a subsidiary that is required to be measured at fair value
through profit or loss.
Identifying a business combination
An entity shall determine whether a transaction or other event is
a business combination by applying the definition in this IFRS, which
requires that the assets acquired and liabilities assumed constitute
a business. If the assets acquired are not a business, the reporting entity
1
2
2A
3
IFRS 3
© IFRS Foundation
A195

PDF File: ifrs-3-business-combinations.pdf
Page 6:
shall 
account 
for 
the 
transaction 
or 
other 
event 
as 
an 
asset
acquisition. Paragraphs B5–B12D provide guidance on identifying a
business combination and the definition of a business.
The acquisition method
An entity shall account for each business combination by applying the
acquisition method.
Applying the acquisition method requires:
(a)
identifying the acquirer;
(b)
determining the acquisition date;
(c)
recognising and measuring the identifiable assets acquired, the
liabilities assumed and any non-controlling interest in the acquiree;
and
(d)
recognising and measuring goodwill or a gain from a bargain purchase.
Identifying the acquirer
For each business combination, one of the combining entities shall be
identified as the acquirer.
The guidance in IFRS 10 shall be used to identify the acquirer—the entity that
obtains control of another entity, ie the acquiree. If a business combination has
occurred but applying the guidance in IFRS 10 does not clearly indicate which
of the combining entities is the acquirer, the factors in paragraphs
B14–B18 shall be considered in making that determination.
Determining the acquisition date
The acquirer shall identify the acquisition date, which is the date on which
it obtains control of the acquiree.
The date on which the acquirer obtains control of the acquiree is generally the
date on which the acquirer legally transfers the consideration, acquires the
assets and assumes the liabilities of the acquiree—the closing date. However,
the acquirer might obtain control on a date that is either earlier or later than
the closing date. For example, the acquisition date precedes the closing date if
a written agreement provides that the acquirer obtains control of the acquiree
on a date before the closing date. An acquirer shall consider all pertinent facts
and circumstances in identifying the acquisition date.
4
5
6
7
8
9
IFRS 3
A196
© IFRS Foundation

PDF File: ifrs-3-business-combinations.pdf
Page 7:
Recognising and measuring the identifiable assets
acquired, the liabilities assumed and any non-controlling
interest in the acquiree
Recognition principle
As of the acquisition date, the acquirer shall recognise, separately from
goodwill, the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed and any
non-controlling interest in the acquiree. Recognition of identifiable assets
acquired and liabilities assumed is subject to the conditions specified in
paragraphs 11 and 12.
Recognition conditions
To qualify for recognition as part of applying the acquisition method,
the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed must meet the
definitions of assets and liabilities in the Conceptual Framework for Financial
Reporting at the acquisition date. For example, costs the acquirer expects but is
not obliged to incur in the future to effect its plan to exit an activity of
an acquiree or to terminate the employment of or relocate an acquiree’s
employees are not liabilities at the acquisition date. Therefore, the acquirer
does not recognise those costs as part of applying the acquisition method.
Instead, the acquirer recognises those costs in its post-combination financial
statements in accordance with other IFRSs.
In addition, to qualify for recognition as part of applying the acquisition
method, the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed must be part
of what the acquirer and the acquiree (or its former owners) exchanged in
the business combination transaction rather than the result of separate
transactions. The acquirer shall apply the guidance in paragraphs 51–53 to
determine which assets acquired or liabilities assumed are part of the
exchange for the acquiree and which, if any, are the result of separate
transactions to be accounted for in accordance with their nature and the
applicable IFRSs.
The acquirer’s application of the recognition principle and conditions may
result in recognising some assets and liabilities that the acquiree had not
previously recognised as assets and liabilities in its financial statements. For
example, the acquirer recognises the acquired identifiable intangible assets,
such as a brand name, a patent or a customer relationship, that the acquiree
did not recognise as assets in its financial statements because it developed
them internally and charged the related costs to expense.
Paragraphs B31–B40 provide guidance on recognising intangible assets.
Paragraphs 21A–28B specify the types of identifiable assets and liabilities that
include items for which this IFRS provides limited exceptions to the
recognition principle and conditions.
10
11
12
13
14
IFRS 3
© IFRS Foundation
A197

PDF File: ifrs-3-business-combinations.pdf
Page 8:
Classifying or designating identifiable assets acquired and liabilities
assumed in a business combination
At the acquisition date, the acquirer shall classify or designate the
identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed as necessary to apply
other IFRSs subsequently. The acquirer shall make those classifications or
designations on the basis of the contractual terms, economic conditions, its
operating or accounting policies and other pertinent conditions as they
exist at the acquisition date.
In some situations, IFRSs provide for different accounting depending on how
an entity classifies or designates a particular asset or liability. Examples of
classifications or designations that the acquirer shall make on the basis of the
pertinent conditions as they exist at the acquisition date include but are not
limited to:
(a)
classification of particular financial assets and liabilities as measured
at fair value through profit or loss or at amortised cost, or as a
financial asset measured at fair value through other comprehensive
income in accordance with IFRS 9 Financial Instruments;
(b)
designation of a derivative instrument as a hedging instrument in
accordance with IFRS 9; and
(c)
assessment of whether an embedded derivative should be separated
from a host contract in accordance with IFRS 9 (which is a matter of
‘classification’ as this IFRS uses that term).
This IFRS provides an exception to the principle in paragraph 15:
(a)
classification of a lease contract in which the acquiree is the lessor as
either an operating lease or a finance lease in accordance with IFRS 16
Leases.
(b)
[deleted]
The acquirer shall classify those contracts on the basis of the contractual
terms and other factors at the inception of the contract (or, if the terms of the
contract have been modified in a manner that would change its classification,
at the date of that modification, which might be the acquisition date).
Measurement principle
The acquirer shall measure the identifiable assets acquired and the
liabilities assumed at their acquisition-date fair values.
For each business combination, the acquirer shall measure at the acquisition
date components of non-controlling interests in the acquiree that are present
ownership interests and entitle their holders to a proportionate share of the
entity’s net assets in the event of liquidation at either:
(a)
fair value; or
(b)
the present ownership instruments’ proportionate share in the
recognised amounts of the acquiree’s identifiable net assets.
15
16
17
18
19
IFRS 3
A198
© IFRS Foundation

PDF File: ifrs-3-business-combinations.pdf
Page 9:
All other components of non-controlling interests shall be measured at their
acquisition-date fair values, unless another measurement basis is required by
IFRSs.
Paragraphs 24–31A specify the types of identifiable assets and liabilities that
include items for which this IFRS provides limited exceptions to the
measurement principle.
Exceptions to the recognition or measurement principles
This IFRS provides limited exceptions to its recognition and measurement
principles. Paragraphs 21A–31A specify both the particular items for which
exceptions are provided and the nature of those exceptions. The acquirer shall
account for those items by applying the requirements in paragraphs 21A–31A,
which will result in some items being:
(a)
recognised either by applying recognition conditions in addition to
those in paragraphs 11 and 12 or by applying the requirements of
other IFRSs, with results that differ from applying the recognition
principle and conditions.
(b)
measured at an amount other than their acquisition-date fair values.
Exceptions to the recognition principle
Liabilities and contingent liabilities within the scope of IAS 37 or IFRIC 21
Paragraph 21B applies to liabilities and contingent liabilities that would be
within the scope of IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets or
IFRIC 21 Levies if they were incurred separately rather than assumed in a
business combination.
The Conceptual Framework for Financial Reporting defines a liability as ‘a present
obligation of the entity to transfer an economic resource as a result of past
events’. For a provision or contingent liability that would be within the scope
of IAS 37, the acquirer shall apply paragraphs 15–22 of IAS 37 to determine
whether at the acquisition date a present obligation exists as a result of past
events. For a levy that would be within the scope of IFRIC 21, the acquirer
shall apply IFRIC 21 to determine whether the obligating event that gives rise
to a liability to pay the levy has occurred by the acquisition date.
A present obligation identified in accordance with paragraph 21B might meet
the definition of a contingent liability set out in paragraph 22(b). If so,
paragraph 23 applies to that contingent liability.
Contingent liabilities and contingent assets
IAS 37 defines a contingent liability as:
(a)
a possible obligation that arises from past events and whose existence
will be confirmed only by the occurrence or non-occurrence of one or
more uncertain future events not wholly within the control of the
entity; or
20
21
21A
21B
21C
22
IFRS 3
© IFRS Foundation
A199

PDF File: ifrs-3-business-combinations.pdf
Page 10:
(b)
a present obligation that arises from past events but is not recognised
because:
(i)
it is not probable that an outflow of resources embodying
economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation; or
(ii)
the amount of the obligation cannot be measured with
sufficient reliability.
The acquirer shall recognise as of the acquisition date a contingent liability
assumed in a business combination if it is a present obligation that arises from
past events and its fair value can be measured reliably. Therefore, contrary to
paragraphs 14(b), 23, 27, 29 and 30 of IAS 37, the acquirer recognises a
contingent liability assumed in a business combination at the acquisition date
even if it is not probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic
benefits will be required to settle the obligation. Paragraph 56 of this IFRS
provides guidance on the subsequent accounting for contingent liabilities.
IAS 37 defines a contingent asset as ‘a possible asset that arises from past
events and whose existence will be confirmed only by the occurrence or non-
occurrence of one or more uncertain future events not wholly within the
control of the entity’. The acquirer shall not recognise a contingent asset at
the acquisition date.
Exceptions to both the recognition and measurement principles
Income taxes
The acquirer shall recognise and measure a deferred tax asset or liability
arising from the assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business
combination in accordance with IAS 12 Income Taxes.
The acquirer shall account for the potential tax effects of temporary
differences and carryforwards of an acquiree that exist at the acquisition date
or arise as a result of the acquisition in accordance with IAS 12.
Employee benefits
The acquirer shall recognise and measure a liability (or asset, if any) related to
the acquiree’s employee benefit arrangements in accordance with IAS 19
Employee Benefits.
Indemnification assets
The seller in a business combination may contractually indemnify the
acquirer for the outcome of a contingency or uncertainty related to all or part
of a specific asset or liability. For example, the seller may indemnify the
acquirer against losses above a specified amount on a liability arising from a
particular contingency; in other words, the seller will guarantee that the
acquirer’s liability will not exceed a specified amount. As a result, the acquirer
obtains an indemnification asset. The acquirer shall recognise an
indemnification asset at the same time that it recognises the indemnified item
measured on the same basis as the indemnified item, subject to the need for a
valuation 
allowance 
for 
uncollectible 
amounts. 
Therefore, 
if 
the
23
23A
24
25
26
27
IFRS 3
A200
© IFRS Foundation

PDF File: ifrs-3-business-combinations.pdf
Page 11:
indemnification relates to an asset or a liability that is recognised at the
acquisition date and measured at its acquisition-date fair value, the acquirer
shall recognise the indemnification asset at the acquisition date measured at
its acquisition-date fair value. For an indemnification asset measured at fair
value, the effects of uncertainty about future cash flows because of
collectibility considerations are included in the fair value measure and a
separate valuation allowance is not necessary (paragraph B41 provides related
application guidance).
In some circumstances, the indemnification may relate to an asset or a
liability that is an exception to the recognition or measurement principles. For
example, an indemnification may relate to a contingent liability that is not
recognised at the acquisition date because its fair value is not reliably
measurable at that date. Alternatively, an indemnification may relate to an
asset or a liability, for example, one that results from an employee benefit,
that is measured on a basis other than acquisition-date fair value. In those
circumstances, the indemnification asset shall be recognised and measured
using assumptions consistent with those used to measure the indemnified
item, subject to management’s assessment of the collectibility of the
indemnification asset and any contractual limitations on the indemnified
amount. Paragraph 57 provides guidance on the subsequent accounting for an
indemnification asset.
Leases in which the acquiree is the lessee
The acquirer shall recognise right-of-use assets and lease liabilities for leases
identified in accordance with IFRS 16 in which the acquiree is the lessee. The
acquirer is not required to recognise right-of-use assets and lease liabilities for:
(a)
leases for which the lease term (as defined in IFRS 16) ends within
12 months of the acquisition date; or
(b)
leases for which the underlying asset is of low value (as described in
paragraphs B3–B8 of IFRS 16).
The acquirer shall measure the lease liability at the present value of the
remaining lease payments (as defined in IFRS 16) as if the acquired lease were
a new lease at the acquisition date. The acquirer shall measure the right-of-use
asset at the same amount as the lease liability, adjusted to reflect favourable
or unfavourable terms of the lease when compared with market terms.
Exceptions to the measurement principle
Reacquired rights
The acquirer shall measure the value of a reacquired right recognised as an
intangible asset on the basis of the remaining contractual term of the related
contract regardless of whether market participants would consider potential
contractual renewals when measuring its fair value. Paragraphs B35 and B36
provide related application guidance.
28
28A
28B
29
IFRS 3
© IFRS Foundation
A201

PDF File: ifrs-3-business-combinations.pdf
Page 12:
Share-based payment transactions
The acquirer shall measure a liability or an equity instrument related to
share-based payment transactions of the acquiree or the replacement of an
acquiree’s share-based payment transactions with share-based payment
transactions of the acquirer in accordance with the method in IFRS 2
Share-based Payment at the acquisition date. (This IFRS refers to the result of
that method as the ‘market-based measure’ of the share-based payment
transaction.)
Assets held for sale
The acquirer shall measure an acquired non-current asset (or disposal group)
that is classified as held for sale at the acquisition date in accordance with
IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations at fair value less
costs to sell in accordance with paragraphs 15–18 of that IFRS.
Insurance contracts
The acquirer shall measure a group of contracts within the scope of IFRS 17
Insurance Contracts acquired in a business combination, and any assets for
insurance acquisition cash flows as defined in IFRS 17, as a liability or asset in
accordance with paragraphs 39 and B93–B95F of IFRS 17, at the acquisition
date.
Recognising and measuring goodwill or a gain from a
bargain purchase
The acquirer shall recognise goodwill as of the acquisition date measured
as the excess of (a) over (b) below:
(a)
the aggregate of:
(i)
the consideration transferred measured in accordance with
this IFRS, which generally requires acquisition-date fair value
(see paragraph 37);
(ii)
the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree
measured in accordance with this IFRS; and
(iii)
in a business combination achieved in stages (see paragraphs
41 and 42), the acquisition-date fair value of the acquirer’s
previously held equity interest in the acquiree.
(b)
the net of the acquisition-date amounts of the identifiable assets
acquired and the liabilities assumed measured in accordance with
this IFRS.
In a business combination in which the acquirer and the acquiree (or its
former owners) exchange only equity interests, the acquisition-date fair value
of the acquiree’s equity interests may be more reliably measurable than the
acquisition-date fair value of the acquirer’s equity interests. If so, the acquirer
shall determine the amount of goodwill by using the acquisition-date fair
value of the acquiree’s equity interests instead of the acquisition-date fair
value of the equity interests transferred. To determine the amount of goodwill
30
31
31A
32
33
IFRS 3
A202
© IFRS Foundation

PDF File: ifrs-3-business-combinations.pdf
Page 13:
in a business combination in which no consideration is transferred, the
acquirer shall use the acquisition-date fair value of the acquirer’s interest in
the acquiree in place of the acquisition-date fair value of the consideration
transferred 
(paragraph 
32(a)(i)). 
Paragraphs 
B46–B49 
provide 
related
application guidance.
Bargain purchases
Occasionally, an acquirer will make a bargain purchase, which is a business
combination in which the amount in paragraph 32(b) exceeds the aggregate of
the amounts specified in paragraph 32(a). If that excess remains after applying
the requirements in paragraph 36, the acquirer shall recognise the resulting
gain in profit or loss on the acquisition date. The gain shall be attributed to
the acquirer.
A bargain purchase might happen, for example, in a business combination
that is a forced sale in which the seller is acting under compulsion. However,
the recognition or measurement exceptions for particular items discussed in
paragraphs 22–31A may also result in recognising a gain (or change the
amount of a recognised gain) on a bargain purchase.
Before recognising a gain on a bargain purchase, the acquirer shall reassess
whether it has correctly identified all of the assets acquired and all of the
liabilities assumed and shall recognise any additional assets or liabilities that
are identified in that review. The acquirer shall then review the procedures
used to measure the amounts this IFRS requires to be recognised at the
acquisition date for all of the following:
(a)
the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed;
(b)
the non-controlling interest in the acquiree, if any;
(c)
for a business combination achieved in stages, the acquirer’s
previously held equity interest in the acquiree; and
(d)
the consideration transferred.
The objective of the review is to ensure that the measurements appropriately
reflect consideration of all available information as of the acquisition date.
Consideration transferred
The consideration transferred in a business combination shall be measured
at fair value, which shall be calculated as the sum of the acquisition-date fair
values of the assets transferred by the acquirer, the liabilities incurred by the
acquirer to former owners of the acquiree and the equity interests issued by
the acquirer. (However, any portion of the acquirer’s share-based payment
awards exchanged for awards held by the acquiree’s employees that is
included in consideration transferred in the business combination shall be
measured in accordance with paragraph 30 rather than at fair value.)
Examples of potential forms of consideration include cash, other assets,
a business or a subsidiary of the acquirer, contingent consideration, ordinary or
preference equity instruments, options, warrants and member interests
of mutual entities.
34
35
36
37
IFRS 3
© IFRS Foundation
A203

PDF File: ifrs-3-business-combinations.pdf
Page 14:
The 
consideration 
transferred 
may 
include 
assets 
or 
liabilities 
of
the acquirer that have carrying amounts that differ from their fair values at
the acquisition date (for example, non-monetary assets or a business of the
acquirer). If so, the acquirer shall remeasure the transferred assets or
liabilities to their fair values as of the acquisition date and recognise the
resulting gains or losses, if any, in profit or loss. However, sometimes the
transferred assets or liabilities remain within the combined entity after
the business combination (for example, because the assets or liabilities were
transferred to the acquiree rather than to its former owners), and the acquirer
therefore retains control of them. In that situation, the acquirer shall measure
those assets and liabilities at their carrying amounts immediately before the
acquisition date and shall not recognise a gain or loss in profit or loss on
assets or liabilities it controls both before and after the business combination.
Contingent consideration
The consideration the acquirer transfers in exchange for the acquiree includes
any asset or liability resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement
(see paragraph 37). The acquirer shall recognise the acquisition-date fair value
of contingent consideration as part of the consideration transferred in
exchange for the acquiree.
The acquirer shall classify an obligation to pay contingent consideration that
meets the definition of a financial instrument as a financial liability or as
equity on the basis of the definitions of an equity instrument and a financial
liability in paragraph 11 of IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation. The
acquirer shall classify as an asset a right to the return of previously
transferred consideration if specified conditions are met. Paragraph 58
provides guidance on the subsequent accounting for contingent consideration.
Additional guidance for applying the acquisition method
to particular types of business combinations
A business combination achieved in stages
An acquirer sometimes obtains control of an acquiree in which it held
an equity interest immediately before the acquisition date. For example, on
31 December 20X1, Entity A holds a 35 per cent non-controlling equity
interest in Entity B. On that date, Entity A purchases an additional 40 per cent
interest in Entity B, which gives it control of Entity B. This IFRS refers to such
a transaction as a business combination achieved in stages, sometimes also
referred to as a step acquisition.
In a business combination achieved in stages, the acquirer shall remeasure its
previously held equity interest in the acquiree at its acquisition-date fair value
and recognise the resulting gain or loss, if any, in profit or loss or other
comprehensive income, as appropriate. In prior reporting periods, the
acquirer may have recognised changes in the value of its equity interest in the
acquiree in other comprehensive income. If so, the amount that was
recognised in other comprehensive income shall be recognised on the same
38
39
40
41
42
IFRS 3
A204
© IFRS Foundation

PDF File: ifrs-3-business-combinations.pdf
Page 15:
basis as would be required if the acquirer had disposed directly of the
previously held equity interest.
When a party to a joint arrangement (as defined in IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements)
obtains control of a business that is a joint operation (as defined in IFRS 11),
and had rights to the assets and obligations for the liabilities relating to that
joint operation immediately before the acquisition date, the transaction is a
business combination achieved in stages. The acquirer shall therefore apply
the requirements for a business combination achieved in stages, including
remeasuring its previously held interest in the joint operation in the manner
described in paragraph 42. In doing so, the acquirer shall remeasure its entire
previously held interest in the joint operation.
A business combination achieved without the transfer of
consideration
An acquirer sometimes obtains control of an acquiree without transferring
consideration. The acquisition method of accounting for a business
combination applies to those combinations. Such circumstances include:
(a)
The acquiree repurchases a sufficient number of its own shares for an
existing investor (the acquirer) to obtain control.
(b)
Minority veto rights lapse that previously kept the acquirer from
controlling an acquiree in which the acquirer held the majority voting
rights.
(c)
The acquirer and acquiree agree to combine their businesses by
contract alone. The acquirer transfers no consideration in exchange for
control of an acquiree and holds no equity interests in the acquiree,
either on the acquisition date or previously. Examples of business
combinations achieved by contract alone include bringing two
businesses together in a stapling arrangement or forming a dual listed
corporation.
In a business combination achieved by contract alone, the acquirer shall
attribute to the owners of the acquiree the amount of the acquiree’s net assets
recognised in accordance with this IFRS. In other words, the equity interests
in the acquiree held by parties other than the acquirer are a non-controlling
interest in the acquirer’s post-combination financial statements even if the
result is that all of the equity interests in the acquiree are attributed to the
non-controlling interest.
Measurement period
If the initial accounting for a business combination is incomplete by the
end of the reporting period in which the combination occurs, the acquirer
shall report in its financial statements provisional amounts for the items
for which the accounting is incomplete. During the measurement period,
the acquirer shall retrospectively adjust the provisional amounts
recognised at the acquisition date to reflect new information obtained
about facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date and, if
known, would have affected the measurement of the amounts recognised
42A
43
44
45
IFRS 3
© IFRS Foundation
A205

PDF File: ifrs-3-business-combinations.pdf
Page 16:
as of that date. During the measurement period, the acquirer shall also
recognise additional assets or liabilities if new information is obtained
about facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date and, if
known, would have resulted in the recognition of those assets and
liabilities as of that date. The measurement period ends as soon as the
acquirer receives the information it was seeking about facts and
circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date or learns that more
information is not obtainable. However, the measurement period shall not
exceed one year from the acquisition date.
The measurement period is the period after the acquisition date during which
the acquirer may adjust the provisional amounts recognised for a business
combination. The measurement period provides the acquirer with a
reasonable time to obtain the information necessary to identify and measure
the following as of the acquisition date in accordance with the requirements
of this IFRS:
(a)
the identifiable assets acquired, liabilities assumed and any
non-controlling interest in the acquiree;
(b)
the consideration transferred for the acquiree (or the other amount
used in measuring goodwill);
(c)
in a business combination achieved in stages, the equity interest in the
acquiree previously held by the acquirer; and
(d)
the resulting goodwill or gain on a bargain purchase.
The acquirer shall consider all pertinent factors in determining whether
information obtained after the acquisition date should result in an adjustment
to the provisional amounts recognised or whether that information results
from events that occurred after the acquisition date. Pertinent factors include
the date when additional information is obtained and whether the acquirer
can identify a reason for a change to provisional amounts. Information that is
obtained shortly after the acquisition date is more likely to reflect
circumstances that existed at the acquisition date than is information
obtained several months later. For example, unless an intervening event that
changed its fair value can be identified, the sale of an asset to a third party
shortly after the acquisition date for an amount that differs significantly from
its provisional fair value measured at that date is likely to indicate an error in
the provisional amount.
The acquirer recognises an increase (decrease) in the provisional amount
recognised for an identifiable asset (liability) by means of a decrease (increase)
in goodwill. However, new information obtained during the measurement
period may sometimes result in an adjustment to the provisional amount of
more than one asset or liability. For example, the acquirer might have
assumed a liability to pay damages related to an accident in one of
the acquiree’s facilities, part or all of which are covered by the acquiree’s
liability insurance policy. If the acquirer obtains new information during the
measurement period about the acquisition-date fair value of that liability, the
adjustment to goodwill resulting from a change to the provisional amount
46
47
48
IFRS 3
A206
© IFRS Foundation

PDF File: ifrs-3-business-combinations.pdf
Page 17:
recognised for the liability would be offset (in whole or in part) by a
corresponding adjustment to goodwill resulting from a change to the
provisional amount recognised for the claim receivable from the insurer.
During the measurement period, the acquirer shall recognise adjustments to
the provisional amounts as if the accounting for the business combination had
been completed at the acquisition date. Thus, the acquirer shall revise
comparative information for prior periods presented in financial statements
as needed, including making any change in depreciation, amortisation or
other income effects recognised in completing the initial accounting.
After the measurement period ends, the acquirer shall revise the accounting
for a business combination only to correct an error in accordance with IAS 8
Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors.
Determining what is part of the business combination
transaction
The acquirer and the acquiree may have a pre-existing relationship or other
arrangement before negotiations for the business combination began, or
they may enter into an arrangement during the negotiations that is
separate from the business combination. In either situation, the acquirer
shall identify any amounts that are not part of what the acquirer and the
acquiree (or its former owners) exchanged in the business combination,
ie amounts that are not part of the exchange for the acquiree. The acquirer
shall recognise as part of applying the acquisition method only the
consideration transferred for the acquiree and the assets acquired and
liabilities assumed in the exchange for the acquiree. Separate transactions
shall be accounted for in accordance with the relevant IFRSs.
A transaction entered into by or on behalf of the acquirer or primarily for the
benefit of the acquirer or the combined entity, rather than primarily for the
benefit of the acquiree (or its former owners) before the combination, is likely
to be a separate transaction. The following are examples of separate
transactions that are not to be included in applying the acquisition method:
(a)
a transaction that in effect settles pre-existing relationships between
the acquirer and acquiree;
(b)
a transaction that remunerates employees or former owners of the
acquiree for future services; and
(c)
a transaction that reimburses the acquiree or its former owners for
paying the acquirer’s acquisition-related costs.
Paragraphs B50–B62 provide related application guidance.
Acquisition-related costs
Acquisition-related costs are costs the acquirer incurs to effect a business
combination. Those costs include finder’s fees; advisory, legal, accounting,
valuation and other professional or consulting fees; general administrative
costs, including the costs of maintaining an internal acquisitions department;
and costs of registering and issuing debt and equity securities. The acquirer
49
50
51
52
53
IFRS 3
© IFRS Foundation
A207

PDF File: ifrs-3-business-combinations.pdf
Page 18:
shall account for acquisition-related costs as expenses in the periods in which
the costs are incurred and the services are received, with one exception. The
costs to issue debt or equity securities shall be recognised in accordance
with IAS 32 and IFRS 9.
Subsequent measurement and accounting
In general, an acquirer shall subsequently measure and account for assets
acquired, liabilities assumed or incurred and equity instruments issued in
a business combination in accordance with other applicable IFRSs for those
items, depending on their nature. However, this IFRS provides guidance on
subsequently measuring and accounting for the following assets acquired,
liabilities assumed or incurred and equity instruments issued in a business
combination:
(a)
reacquired rights;
(b)
contingent liabilities recognised as of the acquisition date;
(c)
indemnification assets; and
(d)
contingent consideration.
Paragraph B63 provides related application guidance.
Reacquired rights
A reacquired right recognised as an intangible asset shall be amortised over
the remaining contractual period of the contract in which the right was
granted. An acquirer that subsequently sells a reacquired right to a third party
shall include the carrying amount of the intangible asset in determining the
gain or loss on the sale.
Contingent liabilities
After initial recognition and until the liability is settled, cancelled or expires,
the acquirer shall measure a contingent liability recognised in a business
combination at the higher of:
(a)
the amount that would be recognised in accordance with IAS 37; and
(b)
the amount initially recognised less, if appropriate, the cumulative
amount of income recognised in accordance with the principles of
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers.
This requirement does not apply to contracts accounted for in accordance
with IFRS 9.
Indemnification assets
At the end of each subsequent reporting period, the acquirer shall measure an
indemnification asset that was recognised at the acquisition date on the same
basis as the indemnified liability or asset, subject to any contractual
limitations on its amount and, for an indemnification asset that is not
54
55
56
57
IFRS 3
A208
© IFRS Foundation

PDF File: ifrs-3-business-combinations.pdf
Page 19:
subsequently measured at its fair value, management’s assessment of the
collectibility of the indemnification asset. The acquirer shall derecognise the
indemnification asset only when it collects the asset, sells it or otherwise loses
the right to it.
Contingent consideration
Some changes in the fair value of contingent consideration that the acquirer
recognises after the acquisition date may be the result of additional
information that the acquirer obtained after that date about facts and
circumstances that existed at the acquisition date. Such changes are
measurement period adjustments in accordance with paragraphs 45–49.
However, changes resulting from events after the acquisition date, such as
meeting an earnings target, reaching a specified share price or reaching a
milestone on a research and development project, are not measurement
period adjustments. The acquirer shall account for changes in the fair value of
contingent consideration that are not measurement period adjustments as
follows:
(a)
Contingent consideration classified as equity shall not be remeasured
and its subsequent settlement shall be accounted for within equity.
(b)
Other contingent consideration that:
(i)
is within the scope of IFRS 9 shall be measured at fair value at
each reporting date and changes in fair value shall be
recognised in profit or loss in accordance with IFRS 9.
(ii)
is not within the scope of IFRS 9 shall be measured at fair value
at each reporting date and changes in fair value shall be
recognised in profit or loss.
Disclosures
The acquirer shall disclose information that enables users of its financial
statements to evaluate the nature and financial effect of a business
combination that occurs either:
(a)
during the current reporting period; or
(b)
after the end of the reporting period but before the financial
statements are authorised for issue.
To meet the objective in paragraph 59, the acquirer shall disclose the
information specified in paragraphs B64—B66.
The acquirer shall disclose information that enables users of its financial
statements to evaluate the financial effects of adjustments recognised in
the current reporting period that relate to business combinations that
occurred in the period or previous reporting periods.
To meet the objective in paragraph 61, the acquirer shall disclose the
information specified in paragraph B67.
58
59
60
61
62
IFRS 3
© IFRS Foundation
A209

PDF File: ifrs-3-business-combinations.pdf
Page 20:
If the specific disclosures required by this and other IFRSs do not meet the
objectives set out in paragraphs 59 and 61, the acquirer shall disclose
whatever additional information is necessary to meet those objectives.
Effective date and transition
Effective date
This IFRS shall be applied prospectively to business combinations for which
the acquisition date is on or after the beginning of the first annual reporting
period beginning on or after 1 July 2009. Earlier application is permitted.
However, this IFRS shall be applied only at the beginning of an annual
reporting period that begins on or after 30 June 2007. If an entity applies this
IFRS before 1 July 2009, it shall disclose that fact and apply IAS 27 (as
amended in 2008) at the same time.
[Deleted]
Improvements to IFRSs issued in May 2010 amended paragraphs 19, 30 and B56
and added paragraphs B62A and B62B. An entity shall apply those
amendments for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2010. Earlier
application is permitted. If an entity applies the amendments for an earlier
period it shall disclose that fact. Application should be prospective from the
date when the entity first applied this IFRS.
Paragraphs 65A–65E were added by Improvements to IFRSs issued in May 2010.
An entity shall apply those amendments for annual periods beginning on or
after 1 July 2010. Earlier application is permitted. If an entity applies the
amendments for an earlier period it shall disclose that fact. The amendments
shall be applied to contingent consideration balances arising from business
combinations with an acquisition date prior to the application of this IFRS, as
issued in 2008.
[Deleted]
IFRS 10, issued in May 2011, amended paragraphs 7, B13, B63(e) and
Appendix A. An entity shall apply those amendments when it applies IFRS 10.
IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement, issued in May 2011, amended paragraphs 20,
29, 33, 47, amended the definition of fair value in Appendix A and amended
paragraphs B22, B40, B43–B46, B49 and B64. An entity shall apply those
amendments when it applies IFRS 13.
Investment Entities (Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 27), issued in
October 2012, amended paragraph 7 and added paragraph 2A. An entity shall
apply those amendments for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January
2014. Earlier application of Investment Entities is permitted. If an entity applies
these amendments earlier it shall also apply all amendments included in
Investment Entities at the same time.
[Deleted]
63
64
64A
64B
64C
64D
64E
64F
64G
64H
IFRS 3
A210
© IFRS Foundation

PDF File: ifrs-3-business-combinations.pdf
Page 21:
Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2010–2012 Cycle, issued in December 2013,
amended paragraphs 40 and 58 and added paragraph 67A and its related
heading. An entity shall apply that amendment prospectively to business
combinations for which the acquisition date is on or after 1 July 2014. Earlier
application is permitted. An entity may apply the amendment earlier provided
that IFRS 9 and IAS 37 (both as amended by Annual Improvements to IFRSs
2010–2012 Cycle) have also been applied. If an entity applies that amendment
earlier it shall disclose that fact.
Annual Improvements Cycle 2011–2013 issued in December 2013 amended
paragraph 2(a). An entity shall apply that amendment prospectively for annual
periods beginning on or after 1 July 2014. Earlier application is permitted. If
an entity applies that amendment for an earlier period it shall disclose that
fact.
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers, issued in May 2014, amended
paragraph 56. An entity shall apply that amendment when it applies IFRS 15.
IFRS 9, as issued in July 2014, amended paragraphs 16, 42, 53, 56, 58 and B41
and deleted paragraphs 64A, 64D and 64H. An entity shall apply those
amendments when it applies IFRS 9.
IFRS 16, issued in January 2016, amended paragraphs 14, 17, B32 and B42,
deleted paragraphs B28–B30 and their related heading and added paragraphs
28A–28B and their related heading. An entity shall apply those amendments
when it applies IFRS 16.
IFRS 17, issued in May 2017, amended paragraphs 17, 20, 21, 35 and B63, and
after paragraph 31 added a heading and paragraph 31A. Amendments to IFRS 17,
issued in June 2020, amended paragraph 31A. An entity shall apply the
amendments to paragraph 17 to business combinations with an acquisition
date after the date of initial application of IFRS 17. An entity shall apply the
other amendments when it applies IFRS 17.
Annual Improvements to IFRS Standards 2015–2017 Cycle, issued in December
2017, added paragraph 42A. An entity shall apply those amendments to
business combinations for which the acquisition date is on or after the
beginning of the first annual reporting period beginning on or after 1 January
2019. Earlier application is permitted. If an entity applies those amendments
earlier, it shall disclose that fact.
Definition of a Business, issued in October 2018, added paragraphs
B7A–B7C, B8A and B12A–B12D, amended the definition of the term ‘business’
in Appendix A, amended paragraphs 3, B7–B9, B11 and B12 and deleted
paragraph B10. An entity shall apply these amendments to business
combinations for which the acquisition date is on or after the beginning of the
first annual reporting period beginning on or after 1 January 2020 and to asset
acquisitions that occur on or after the beginning of that period. Earlier
application of these amendments is permitted. If an entity applies these
amendments for an earlier period, it shall disclose that fact.
64I
64J
64K
64L
64M
64N
64O
64P
IFRS 3
© IFRS Foundation
A211

PDF File: ifrs-3-business-combinations.pdf
Page 22:
Reference to the Conceptual Framework, issued in May 2020, amended paragraphs
11, 14, 21, 22 and 23 and added paragraphs 21A, 21B, 21C and 23A. An entity
shall apply those amendments to business combinations for which the
acquisition date is on or after the beginning of the first annual reporting
period beginning on or after 1 January 2022. Earlier application is permitted if
at the same time or earlier an entity also applies all the amendments made by
Amendments to References to the Conceptual Framework in IFRS Standards, issued in
March 2018.
Transition
Assets and liabilities that arose from business combinations whose acquisition
dates preceded the application of this IFRS shall not be adjusted upon
application of this IFRS.
Contingent consideration balances arising from business combinations whose
acquisition dates preceded the date when an entity first applied this IFRS as
issued in 2008 shall not be adjusted upon first application of this IFRS.
Paragraphs 65B–65E shall be applied in the subsequent accounting for those
balances. Paragraphs 65B–65E shall not apply to the accounting for contingent
consideration balances arising from business combinations with acquisition
dates on or after the date when the entity first applied this IFRS as issued in
2008. In paragraphs 65B–65E business combination refers exclusively to
business combinations whose acquisition date preceded the application of this
IFRS as issued in 2008.
If a business combination agreement provides for an adjustment to the cost of
the combination contingent on future events, the acquirer shall include the
amount of that adjustment in the cost of the combination at the acquisition
date if the adjustment is probable and can be measured reliably.
A business combination agreement may allow for adjustments to the cost of
the combination that are contingent on one or more future events. The
adjustment might, for example, be contingent on a specified level of profit
being maintained or achieved in future periods, or on the market price of the
instruments issued being maintained. It is usually possible to estimate the
amount of any such adjustment at the time of initially accounting for the
combination without impairing the reliability of the information, even
though some uncertainty exists. If the future events do not occur or the
estimate needs to be revised, the cost of the business combination shall be
adjusted accordingly.
However, when a business combination agreement provides for such an
adjustment, that adjustment is not included in the cost of the combination at
the time of initially accounting for the combination if it either is not probable
or cannot be measured reliably. If that adjustment subsequently becomes
probable and can be measured reliably, the additional consideration shall be
treated as an adjustment to the cost of the combination.
64Q
65
65A
65B
65C
65D
IFRS 3
A212
© IFRS Foundation

PDF File: ifrs-3-business-combinations.pdf
Page 23:
In some circumstances, the acquirer may be required to make a subsequent
payment to the seller as compensation for a reduction in the value of the
assets given, equity instruments issued or liabilities incurred or assumed by
the acquirer in exchange for control of the acquiree. This is the case, for
example, when the acquirer guarantees the market price of equity or debt
instruments issued as part of the cost of the business combination and is
required to issue additional equity or debt instruments to restore the
originally determined cost. In such cases, no increase in the cost of the
business combination is recognised. In the case of equity instruments, the fair
value of the additional payment is offset by an equal reduction in the value
attributed to the instruments initially issued. In the case of debt instruments,
the additional payment is regarded as a reduction in the premium or an
increase in the discount on the initial issue.
An entity, such as a mutual entity, that has not yet applied IFRS 3 and had one
or more business combinations that were accounted for using the purchase
method shall apply the transition provisions in paragraphs B68 and B69.
Income taxes
For business combinations in which the acquisition date was before this IFRS
is applied, the acquirer shall apply the requirements of paragraph 68 of
IAS 12, as amended by this IFRS, prospectively. That is to say, the acquirer
shall not adjust the accounting for prior business combinations for previously
recognised changes in recognised deferred tax assets. However, from the date
when this IFRS is applied, the acquirer shall recognise, as an adjustment to
profit or loss (or, if IAS 12 requires, outside profit or loss), changes in
recognised deferred tax assets.
Reference to IFRS 9
If an entity applies this Standard but does not yet apply IFRS 9, any reference
to IFRS 9 should be read as a reference to IAS 39.
Withdrawal of IFRS 3 (2004)
This IFRS supersedes IFRS 3 Business Combinations (as issued in 2004).
65E
66
67
67A
68
IFRS 3
© IFRS Foundation
A213

PDF File: ifrs-3-business-combinations.pdf
Page 24:
Appendix A
Defined terms
This appendix is an integral part of the IFRS.
acquiree
The business or businesses that the acquirer obtains control of
in a business combination.
acquirer
The entity that obtains control of the acquiree.
acquisition date
The date on which the acquirer obtains control of
the acquiree.
business
An integrated set of activities and assets that is capable of being
conducted and managed for the purpose of providing goods or
services to customers, generating investment income (such as
dividends or interest) or generating other income from ordinary
activities.
business combination
A transaction or other event in which an acquirer obtains
control of one or more businesses. Transactions sometimes
referred to as ‘true mergers’ or ‘mergers of equals’ are
also business combinations as that term is used in this IFRS.
contingent
consideration
Usually, an obligation of the acquirer to transfer additional
assets 
or 
equity 
interests 
to 
the 
former 
owners 
of
an acquiree as part of the exchange for control of the acquiree
if specified future events occur or conditions are met.
However, contingent consideration also may give the acquirer the
right to the return of previously transferred consideration if
specified conditions are met.
equity interests
For the purposes of this IFRS, equity interests is used broadly to
mean ownership interests of investor-owned entities and
owner, member or participant interests of mutual entities.
fair value
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or
paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between
market participants at the measurement date. (See IFRS 13.)
goodwill
An asset representing the future economic benefits arising
from other assets acquired in a business combination that are
not individually identified and separately recognised.
identifiable
An asset is identifiable if it either:
(a)
is separable, ie capable of being separated or divided
from the entity and sold, transferred, licensed, rented or
exchanged, either individually or together with a related
contract, identifiable asset or liability, regardless of
whether the entity intends to do so; or
(b)
arises from contractual or other legal rights, regardless
of whether those rights are transferable or separable
from the entity or from other rights and obligations.
IFRS 3
A214
© IFRS Foundation

PDF File: ifrs-3-business-combinations.pdf
Page 25:
intangible asset
An 
identifiable 
non-monetary 
asset 
without 
physical
substance.
mutual entity
An entity, other than an investor-owned entity, that provides
dividends, lower costs or other economic benefits directly to
its owners, members or participants. For example, a mutual
insurance company, a credit union and a co-operative entity are
all mutual entities.
non-controlling
interest
The equity in a subsidiary not attributable, directly or
indirectly, to a parent.
owners
For the purposes of this IFRS, owners is used broadly to include
holders of equity interests of investor-owned entities and
owners or members of, or participants in, mutual entities.
IFRS 3
© IFRS Foundation
A215

PDF File: ifrs-3-business-combinations.pdf
Page 26:
Appendix B
Application guidance
This appendix is an integral part of the IFRS.
Business combinations of entities under common control
(application of paragraph 2(c))
This IFRS does not apply to a business combination of entities
or businesses under common control. A business combination involving
entities or businesses under common control is a business combination in
which all of the combining entities or businesses are ultimately controlled by
the same party or parties both before and after the business combination, and
that control is not transitory.
A group of individuals shall be regarded as controlling an entity when, as a
result of contractual arrangements, they collectively have the power to govern
its financial and operating policies so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
Therefore, a business combination is outside the scope of this IFRS when the
same group of individuals has, as a result of contractual arrangements,
ultimate collective power to govern the financial and operating policies of
each of the combining entities so as to obtain benefits from their activities,
and that ultimate collective power is not transitory.
An entity may be controlled by an individual or by a group of individuals
acting together under a contractual arrangement, and that individual or
group of individuals may not be subject to the financial reporting
requirements of IFRSs. Therefore, it is not necessary for combining entities to
be included as part of the same consolidated financial statements for
a business combination to be regarded as one involving entities under
common control.
The extent of non-controlling interests in each of the combining entities
before and after the business combination is not relevant to determining
whether the combination involves entities under common control. Similarly,
the fact that one of the combining entities is a subsidiary that has been
excluded from the consolidated financial statements is not relevant to
determining whether a combination involves entities under common control.
Identifying a business combination (application of paragraph 3)
This IFRS defines a business combination as a transaction or other event in
which an acquirer obtains control of one or more businesses. An acquirer
might obtain control of an acquiree in a variety of ways, for example:
(a)
by transferring cash, cash equivalents or other assets (including net
assets that constitute a business);
(b)
by incurring liabilities;
(c)
by issuing equity interests;
B1
B2
B3
B4
B5
IFRS 3
A216
© IFRS Foundation

PDF File: ifrs-3-business-combinations.pdf
Page 27:
(d)
by providing more than one type of consideration; or
(e)
without transferring consideration, including by contract alone
(see paragraph 43).
A business combination may be structured in a variety of ways for legal,
taxation or other reasons, which include but are not limited to:
(a)
one or more businesses become subsidiaries of an acquirer or the net
assets of one or more businesses are legally merged into the acquirer;
(b)
one combining entity transfers its net assets, or its owners transfer
their equity interests, to another combining entity or its owners;
(c)
all of the combining entities transfer their net assets, or the owners of
those entities transfer their equity interests, to a newly formed entity
(sometimes referred to as a roll-up or put-together transaction); or
(d)
a group of former owners of one of the combining entities
obtains control of the combined entity.
Definition of a business (application of paragraph 3)
A business consists of inputs and processes applied to those inputs that have
the ability to contribute to the creation of outputs. The three elements of a
business are defined as follows (see paragraphs B8–B12D for guidance on the
elements of a business):
(a)
Input: Any economic resource that creates outputs, or has the ability
to contribute to the creation of outputs when one or more processes
are 
applied 
to 
it. 
Examples 
include 
non-current 
assets
(including intangible assets or rights to use non-current assets),
intellectual property, the ability to obtain access to necessary materials
or rights and employees.
(b)
Process: Any system, standard, protocol, convention or rule that when
applied to an input or inputs, creates outputs or has the ability to
contribute to the creation of outputs. Examples include strategic
management 
processes, 
operational 
processes 
and 
resource
management processes. These processes typically are documented, but
the intellectual capacity of an organised workforce having the
necessary skills and experience following rules and conventions may
provide the necessary processes that are capable of being applied to
inputs to create outputs. (Accounting, billing, payroll and other
administrative systems typically are not processes used to create
outputs.)
(c)
Output: The result of inputs and processes applied to those inputs that
provide goods or services to customers, generate investment income
(such as dividends or interest) or generate other income from ordinary
activities.
B6
B7
IFRS 3
© IFRS Foundation
A217

PDF File: ifrs-3-business-combinations.pdf
Page 28:
Optional test to identify concentration of fair value
Paragraph B7B sets out an optional test (the concentration test) to permit a
simplified assessment of whether an acquired set of activities and assets is not
a business. An entity may elect to apply, or not apply, the test. An entity may
make such an election separately for each transaction or other event. The
concentration test has the following consequences:
(a)
if the concentration test is met, the set of activities and assets is
determined not to be a business and no further assessment is needed.
(b)
if the concentration test is not met, or if the entity elects not to apply
the test, the entity shall then perform the assessment set out in
paragraphs B8–B12D.
The concentration test is met if substantially all of the fair value of the gross
assets acquired is concentrated in a single identifiable asset or group of similar
identifiable assets. For the concentration test:
(a)
gross assets acquired shall exclude cash and cash equivalents, deferred
tax assets, and goodwill resulting from the effects of deferred tax
liabilities.
(b)
the fair value of the gross assets acquired shall include any
consideration transferred (plus the fair value of any non-controlling
interest and the fair value of any previously held interest) in excess of
the fair value of net identifiable assets acquired. The fair value of the
gross assets acquired may normally be determined as the total
obtained by adding the fair value of the consideration transferred (plus
the fair value of any non-controlling interest and the fair value of any
previously held interest) to the fair value of the liabilities assumed
(other than deferred tax liabilities), and then excluding the items
identified in subparagraph (a). However, if the fair value of the gross
assets acquired is more than that total, a more precise calculation may
sometimes be needed.
(c)
a single identifiable asset shall include any asset or group of assets that
would be recognised and measured as a single identifiable asset in
a business combination.
(d)
if a tangible asset is attached to, and cannot be physically removed and
used separately from, another tangible asset (or from an underlying
asset subject to a lease, as defined in IFRS 16 Leases), without incurring
significant cost, or significant diminution in utility or fair value to
either asset (for example, land and buildings), those assets shall be
considered a single identifiable asset.
(e)
when assessing whether assets are similar, an entity shall consider the
nature of each single identifiable asset and the risks associated with
managing and creating outputs from the assets (that is, the risk
characteristics).
B7A
B7B
IFRS 3
A218
© IFRS Foundation

PDF File: ifrs-3-business-combinations.pdf
Page 29:
(f)
the following shall not be considered similar assets:
(i)
a tangible asset and an intangible asset;
(ii)
tangible assets in different classes (for example, inventory,
manufacturing equipment and automobiles) unless they are
considered a single identifiable asset in accordance with the
criterion in subparagraph (d);
(iii)
identifiable intangible assets in different classes (for example,
brand 
names, 
licences 
and 
intangible 
assets 
under
development);
(iv)
a financial asset and a non-financial asset;
(v)
financial assets in different classes (for example, accounts
receivable and investments in equity instruments); and
(vi)
identifiable assets that are within the same class of asset but
have significantly different risk characteristics.
The requirements in paragraph B7B do not modify the guidance on similar
assets in IAS 38 Intangible Assets; nor do they modify the meaning of the term
‘class’ in IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment, IAS 38 and IFRS 7 Financial
Instruments: Disclosures.
Elements of a business
Although businesses usually have outputs, outputs are not required for an
integrated set of activities and assets to qualify as a business. To be capable of
being conducted and managed for the purpose identified in the definition of a
business, an integrated set of activities and assets requires two essential
elements—inputs and processes applied to those inputs. A business need not
include all of the inputs or processes that the seller used in operating that
business. However, to be considered a business, an integrated set of activities
and assets must include, at a minimum, an input and a substantive process
that together significantly contribute to the ability to create output.
Paragraphs B12–B12D specify how to assess whether a process is substantive.
If an acquired set of activities and assets has outputs, continuation of revenue
does not on its own indicate that both an input and a substantive process have
been acquired.
The nature of the elements of a business varies by industry and by the
structure of an entity’s operations (activities), including the entity’s stage of
development. Established businesses often have many different types of
inputs, processes and outputs, whereas new businesses often have few inputs
and processes and sometimes only a single output (product). Nearly all
businesses also have liabilities, but a business need not have liabilities.
Furthermore, an acquired set of activities and assets that is not a business
might have liabilities.
[Deleted]
B7C
B8
B8A
B9
B10
IFRS 3
© IFRS Foundation
A219

PDF File: ifrs-3-business-combinations.pdf
Page 30:
Determining whether a particular set of activities and assets is a business shall
be based on whether the integrated set is capable of being conducted and
managed as a business by a market participant. Thus, in evaluating whether a
particular set is a business, it is not relevant whether a seller operated the set
as a business or whether the acquirer intends to operate the set as a business.
Assessing whether an acquired process is substantive
Paragraphs B12A–B12D explain how to assess whether an acquired process is
substantive if the acquired set of activities and assets does not have outputs
(paragraph B12B) and if it does have outputs (paragraph B12C).
An example of an acquired set of activities and assets that does not have
outputs at the acquisition date is an early-stage entity that has not started
generating revenue. Moreover, if an acquired set of activities and assets was
generating revenue at the acquisition date, it is considered to have outputs at
that date, even if subsequently it will no longer generate revenue from
external customers, for example because it will be integrated by the acquirer.
If a set of activities and assets does not have outputs at the acquisition date, an
acquired process (or group of processes) shall be considered substantive only
if:
(a)
it is critical to the ability to develop or convert an acquired input or
inputs into outputs; and
(b)
the inputs acquired include both an organised workforce that has the
necessary skills, knowledge, or experience to perform that process (or
group of processes) and other inputs that the organised workforce
could develop or convert into outputs. Those other inputs could
include:
(i)
intellectual property that could be used to develop a good or
service;
(ii)
other economic resources that could be developed to create
outputs; or
(iii)
rights to obtain access to necessary materials or rights that
enable the creation of future outputs.
Examples of the inputs mentioned in subparagraphs (b)(i)–(iii) include
technology, in-process research and development projects, real estate and
mineral interests.
If a set of activities and assets has outputs at the acquisition date, an acquired
process (or group of processes) shall be considered substantive if, when applied
to an acquired input or inputs, it:
(a)
is critical to the ability to continue producing outputs, and the inputs
acquired include an organised workforce with the necessary skills,
knowledge, or experience to perform that process (or group of
processes); or
B11
B12
B12A
B12B
B12C
IFRS 3
A220
© IFRS Foundation

PDF File: ifrs-3-business-combinations.pdf
Page 31:
(b)
significantly contributes to the ability to continue producing outputs
and:
(i)
is considered unique or scarce; or
(ii)
cannot be replaced without significant cost, effort, or delay in
the ability to continue producing outputs.
The following additional discussion supports both paragraphs B12B and B12C:
(a)
an acquired contract is an input and not a substantive process.
Nevertheless, an acquired contract, for example, a contract for
outsourced property management or outsourced asset management,
may give access to an organised workforce. An entity shall assess
whether an organised workforce accessed through such a contract
performs a substantive process that the entity controls, and thus has
acquired. Factors to be considered in making that assessment include
the duration of the contract and its renewal terms.
(b)
difficulties in replacing an acquired organised workforce may indicate
that the acquired organised workforce performs a process that is
critical to the ability to create outputs.
(c)
a process (or group of processes) is not critical if, for example, it is
ancillary or minor within the context of all the processes required to
create outputs.
Identifying the acquirer (application of paragraphs 6 and 7)
The guidance in IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements shall be used to
identify the acquirer—the entity that obtains control of the acquiree. If
a business combination has occurred but applying the guidance in IFRS 10
does not clearly indicate which of the combining entities is the acquirer, the
factors in paragraphs B14–B18 shall be considered in making that
determination.
In a business combination effected primarily by transferring cash or other
assets or by incurring liabilities, the acquirer is usually the entity that
transfers the cash or other assets or incurs the liabilities.
In a business combination effected primarily by exchanging equity interests,
the acquirer is usually the entity that issues its equity interests. However, in
some business combinations, commonly called ‘reverse acquisitions’, the
issuing entity is the acquiree. Paragraphs B19–B27 provide guidance on
accounting for reverse acquisitions. Other pertinent facts and circumstances
shall also be considered in identifying the acquirer in a business combination
effected by exchanging equity interests, including:
(a)
the relative voting rights in the combined entity after the business combination—
The acquirer is usually the combining entity whose owners as a group
retain or receive the largest portion of the voting rights in the
combined entity. In determining which group of owners retains or
receives the largest portion of the voting rights, an entity shall
B12D
B13
B14
B15
IFRS 3
© IFRS Foundation
A221

PDF File: ifrs-3-business-combinations.pdf
Page 32:
consider the existence of any unusual or special voting arrangements
and options, warrants or convertible securities.
(b)
the existence of a large minority voting interest in the combined entity if no other
owner or organised group of owners has a significant voting interest—The
acquirer is usually the combining entity whose single owner or
organised group of owners holds the largest minority voting interest in
the combined entity.
(c)
the composition of the governing body of the combined entity—The acquirer is
usually the combining entity whose owners have the ability to elect or
appoint or to remove a majority of the members of the governing body
of the combined entity.
(d)
the composition of the senior management of the combined entity—The
acquirer is usually the combining entity whose (former) management
dominates the management of the combined entity.
(e)
the terms of the exchange of equity interests—The acquirer is usually the
combining entity that pays a premium over the pre-combination fair
value of the equity interests of the other combining entity or entities.
The acquirer is usually the combining entity whose relative size (measured in,
for example, assets, revenues or profit) is significantly greater than that of the
other combining entity or entities.
In a business combination involving more than two entities, determining the
acquirer shall include a consideration of, among other things, which of the
combining entities initiated the combination, as well as the relative size of the
combining entities.
A new entity formed to effect a business combination is not necessarily the
acquirer. If a new entity is formed to issue equity interests to effect a business
combination, one of the combining entities that existed before the business
combination shall be identified as the acquirer by applying the guidance in
paragraphs B13–B17. In contrast, a new entity that transfers cash or other
assets or incurs liabilities as consideration may be the acquirer.
Reverse acquisitions
A reverse acquisition occurs when the entity that issues securities (the legal
acquirer) is identified as the acquiree for accounting purposes on the basis of
the guidance in paragraphs B13–B18. The entity whose equity interests are
acquired (the legal acquiree) must be the acquirer for accounting purposes for
the transaction to be considered a reverse acquisition. For example, reverse
acquisitions sometimes occur when a private operating entity wants to
become a public entity but does not want to register its equity shares. To
accomplish that, the private entity will arrange for a public entity to acquire
its equity interests in exchange for the equity interests of the public entity. In
this example, the public entity is the legal acquirer because it issued its
equity interests, and the private entity is the legal acquiree because its equity
B16
B17
B18
B19
IFRS 3
A222
© IFRS Foundation

PDF File: ifrs-3-business-combinations.pdf
Page 33:
interests were acquired. However, application of the guidance in paragraphs
B13–B18 results in identifying:
(a)
the public entity as the acquiree for accounting purposes (the
accounting acquiree); and
(b)
the private entity as the acquirer for accounting purposes (the
accounting acquirer).
The accounting acquiree must meet the definition of a business for the
transaction to be accounted for as a reverse acquisition, and all of the
recognition and measurement principles in this IFRS, including the
requirement to recognise goodwill, apply.
Measuring the consideration transferred
In a reverse acquisition, the accounting acquirer usually issues no
consideration for the acquiree. Instead, the accounting acquiree usually issues
its equity shares to the owners of the accounting acquirer. Accordingly, the
acquisition-date fair value of the consideration transferred by the accounting
acquirer for its interest in the accounting acquiree is based on the number of
equity interests the legal subsidiary would have had to issue to give the
owners of the legal parent the same percentage equity interest in the
combined entity that results from the reverse acquisition. The fair value of the
number of equity interests calculated in that way can be used as the fair value
of consideration transferred in exchange for the acquiree.
Preparation and presentation of consolidated financial
statements
Consolidated financial statements prepared following a reverse acquisition are
issued under the name of the legal parent (accounting acquiree) but described
in the notes as a continuation of the financial statements of the legal
subsidiary (accounting acquirer), with one adjustment, which is to adjust
retroactively the accounting acquirer’s legal capital to reflect the legal capital
of the accounting acquiree. That adjustment is required to reflect the capital
of the legal parent (the accounting acquiree). Comparative information
presented in those consolidated financial statements also is retroactively
adjusted to reflect the legal capital of the legal parent (accounting acquiree).
Because the consolidated financial statements represent the continuation of
the financial statements of the legal subsidiary except for its capital structure,
the consolidated financial statements reflect:
(a)
the assets and liabilities of the legal subsidiary (the accounting
acquirer) recognised and measured at their pre-combination carrying
amounts.
(b)
the assets and liabilities of the legal parent (the accounting acquiree)
recognised and measured in accordance with this IFRS.
(c)
the retained earnings and other equity balances of the legal subsidiary
(accounting acquirer) before the business combination.
B20
B21
B22
IFRS 3
© IFRS Foundation
A223

PDF File: ifrs-3-business-combinations.pdf
Page 34:
(d)
the amount recognised as issued equity interests in the consolidated
financial statements determined by adding the issued equity interest of
the legal subsidiary (the accounting acquirer) outstanding immediately
before the business combination to the fair value of the legal parent
(accounting acquiree). However, the equity structure (ie the number
and type of equity interests issued) reflects the equity structure of the
legal parent (the accounting acquiree), including the equity interests
the legal parent issued to effect the combination. Accordingly, the
equity structure of the legal subsidiary (the accounting acquirer) is
restated using the exchange ratio established in the acquisition
agreement to reflect the number of shares of the legal parent (the
accounting acquiree) issued in the reverse acquisition.
(e)
the non-controlling interest’s proportionate share of the legal
subsidiary’s (accounting acquirer’s) pre-combination carrying amounts
of retained earnings and other equity interests as discussed in
paragraphs B23 and B24.
Non-controlling interest
In a reverse acquisition, some of the owners of the legal acquiree (the
accounting acquirer) might not exchange their equity interests for equity
interests of the legal parent (the accounting acquiree). Those owners are
treated as a non-controlling interest in the consolidated financial statements
after the reverse acquisition. That is because the owners of the legal acquiree
that do not exchange their equity interests for equity interests of the legal
acquirer have an interest in only the results and net assets of the legal
acquiree—not in the results and net assets of the combined entity. Conversely,
even though the legal acquirer is the acquiree for accounting purposes, the
owners of the legal acquirer have an interest in the results and net assets of
the combined entity.
The assets and liabilities of the legal acquiree are measured and recognised in
the consolidated financial statements at their pre-combination carrying
amounts (see paragraph B22(a)). Therefore, in a reverse acquisition the
non-controlling 
interest 
reflects 
the 
non-controlling 
shareholders’
proportionate interest in the pre-combination carrying amounts of the legal
acquiree’s net assets even if the non-controlling interests in other acquisitions
are measured at their fair value at the acquisition date.
Earnings per share
As noted in paragraph B22(d), the equity structure in the consolidated
financial statements following a reverse acquisition reflects the equity
structure of the legal acquirer (the accounting acquiree), including the equity
interests issued by the legal acquirer to effect the business combination.
In calculating the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding
(the denominator of the earnings per share calculation) during the period in
which the reverse acquisition occurs:
B23
B24
B25
B26
IFRS 3
A224
© IFRS Foundation

PDF File: ifrs-3-business-combinations.pdf
Page 35:
(a)
the number of ordinary shares outstanding from the beginning of that
period to the acquisition date shall be computed on the basis of the
weighted average number of ordinary shares of the legal acquiree
(accounting acquirer) outstanding during the period multiplied by the
exchange ratio established in the merger agreement; and
(b)
the number of ordinary shares outstanding from the acquisition date
to the end of that period shall be the actual number of ordinary shares
of the legal acquirer (the accounting acquiree) outstanding during that
period.
The basic earnings per share for each comparative period before the
acquisition date presented in the consolidated financial statements following a
reverse acquisition shall be calculated by dividing:
(a)
the profit or loss of the legal acquiree attributable to ordinary
shareholders in each of those periods by
(b)
the legal acquiree’s historical weighted average number of ordinary
shares outstanding multiplied by the exchange ratio established in the
acquisition agreement.
Recognising particular assets acquired and liabilities assumed
(application of paragraphs 10–13)
[Deleted]
Intangible assets
The acquirer shall recognise, separately from goodwill, the identifiable
intangible assets acquired in a business combination. An intangible asset is
identifiable if it meets either the separability criterion or the contractual-legal
criterion.
An intangible asset that meets the contractual-legal criterion is identifiable
even if the asset is not transferable or separable from the acquiree or from
other rights and obligations. For example:
(a)
[deleted]
(b)
an acquiree owns and operates a nuclear power plant. The licence to
operate that power plant is an intangible asset that meets the
contractual-legal criterion for recognition separately from goodwill,
even if the acquirer cannot sell or transfer it separately from the
acquired power plant. An acquirer may recognise the fair value of the
operating licence and the fair value of the power plant as a single asset
for financial reporting purposes if the useful lives of those assets are
similar.
(c)
an acquiree owns a technology patent. It has licensed that patent to
others for their exclusive use outside the domestic market, receiving a
specified percentage of future foreign revenue in exchange. Both the
technology patent and the related licence agreement meet the
B27
B28–B30
B31
B32
IFRS 3
© IFRS Foundation
A225

PDF File: ifrs-3-business-combinations.pdf
Page 36:
contractual-legal criterion for recognition separately from goodwill
even if selling or exchanging the patent and the related licence
agreement separately from one another would not be practical.
The separability criterion means that an acquired intangible asset is capable of
being separated or divided from the acquiree and sold, transferred, licensed,
rented or exchanged, either individually or together with a related contract,
identifiable asset or liability. An intangible asset that the acquirer would be
able to sell, license or otherwise exchange for something else of value meets
the separability criterion even if the acquirer does not intend to sell, license or
otherwise exchange it. An acquired intangible asset meets the separability
criterion if there is evidence of exchange transactions for that type of asset or
an asset of a similar type, even if those transactions are infrequent and
regardless of whether the acquirer is involved in them. For example, customer
and subscriber lists are frequently licensed and thus meet the separability
criterion. Even if an acquiree believes its customer lists have characteristics
different from other customer lists, the fact that customer lists are frequently
licensed generally means that the acquired customer list meets the
separability criterion. However, a customer list acquired in a business
combination would not meet the separability criterion if the terms of
confidentiality or other agreements prohibit an entity from selling, leasing or
otherwise exchanging information about its customers.
An intangible asset that is not individually separable from the acquiree or
combined entity meets the separability criterion if it is separable in
combination with a related contract, identifiable asset or liability. For
example:
(a)
market participants exchange deposit liabilities and related depositor
relationship intangible assets in observable exchange transactions.
Therefore, the acquirer should recognise the depositor relationship
intangible asset separately from goodwill.
(b)
an acquiree owns a registered trademark and documented but
unpatented technical expertise used to manufacture the trademarked
product. To transfer ownership of a trademark, the owner is also
required to transfer everything else necessary for the new owner to
produce a product or service indistinguishable from that produced by
the former owner. Because the unpatented technical expertise must be
separated from the acquiree or combined entity and sold if the related
trademark is sold, it meets the separability criterion.
Reacquired rights
As part of a business combination, an acquirer may reacquire a right that it
had previously granted to the acquiree to use one or more of the acquirer’s
recognised or unrecognised assets. Examples of such rights include a right to
use the acquirer’s trade name under a franchise agreement or a right to use
the acquirer’s technology under a technology licensing agreement. A
reacquired right is an identifiable intangible asset that the acquirer recognises
separately from goodwill. Paragraph 29 provides guidance on measuring a
B33
B34
B35
IFRS 3
A226
© IFRS Foundation

PDF File: ifrs-3-business-combinations.pdf
Page 37:
reacquired right and paragraph 55 provides guidance on the subsequent
accounting for a reacquired right.
If the terms of the contract giving rise to a reacquired right are favourable or
unfavourable relative to the terms of current market transactions for the
same or similar items, the acquirer shall recognise a settlement gain or loss.
Paragraph B52 provides guidance for measuring that settlement gain or loss.
Assembled workforce and other items that are not identifiable
The acquirer subsumes into goodwill the value of an acquired intangible
asset that is not identifiable as of the acquisition date. For example, an
acquirer may attribute value to the existence of an assembled workforce,
which is an existing collection of employees that permits the acquirer to
continue to operate an acquired business from the acquisition date. An
assembled workforce does not represent the intellectual capital of the skilled
workforce—the (often specialised) knowledge and experience that employees
of an acquiree bring to their jobs. Because the assembled workforce is not an
identifiable asset to be recognised separately from goodwill, any value
attributed to it is subsumed into goodwill.
The acquirer also subsumes into goodwill any value attributed to items that
do 
not 
qualify 
as 
assets 
at 
the 
acquisition 
date. 
For 
example,
the acquirer might attribute value to potential contracts the acquiree is
negotiating with prospective new customers at the acquisition date. Because
those potential contracts are not themselves assets at the acquisition date, the
acquirer does not recognise them separately from goodwill. The acquirer
should not subsequently reclassify the value of those contracts from goodwill
for events that occur after the acquisition date. However, the acquirer should
assess the facts and circumstances surrounding events occurring shortly after
the acquisition to determine whether a separately recognisable intangible
asset existed at the acquisition date.
After initial recognition, an acquirer accounts for intangible assets acquired in
a business combination in accordance with the provisions of IAS 38 Intangible
Assets. However, as described in paragraph 3 of IAS 38, the accounting for
some acquired intangible assets after initial recognition is prescribed by other
IFRSs.
The identifiability criteria determine whether an intangible asset is recognised
separately from goodwill. However, the criteria neither provide guidance for
measuring the fair value of an intangible asset nor restrict the assumptions
used in measuring the fair value of an intangible asset. For example, the
acquirer would take into account the assumptions that market participants
would use when pricing the intangible asset, such as expectations of future
contract renewals, in measuring fair value. It is not necessary for the renewals
themselves to meet the identifiability criteria. (However, see paragraph 29,
which establishes an exception to the fair value measurement principle for
reacquired rights recognised in a business combination.) Paragraphs 36 and 37
of IAS 38 provide guidance for determining whether intangible assets should
be combined into a single unit of account with other intangible or tangible
assets.
B36
B37
B38
B39
B40
IFRS 3
© IFRS Foundation
A227

PDF File: ifrs-3-business-combinations.pdf
Page 38:
Measuring the fair value of particular identifiable assets and a
non-controlling interest in an acquiree (application of
paragraphs 18 and 19)
Assets with uncertain cash flows (valuation allowances)
The acquirer shall not recognise a separate valuation allowance as of the
acquisition date for assets acquired in a business combination that are
measured at their acquisition-date fair values because the effects of
uncertainty about future cash flows are included in the fair value measure.
For example, because this IFRS requires the acquirer to measure acquired
receivables, including loans, at their acquisition-date fair values in accounting
for a business combination, the acquirer does not recognise a separate
valuation allowance for the contractual cash flows that are deemed to be
uncollectible at that date or a loss allowance for expected credit losses.
Assets subject to operating leases in which the acquiree
is the lessor
In measuring the acquisition-date fair value of an asset such as a building or a
patent that is subject to an operating lease in which the acquiree is the lessor,
the acquirer shall take into account the terms of the lease. The acquirer does
not recognise a separate asset or liability if the terms of an operating lease are
either favourable or unfavourable when compared with market terms.
Assets that the acquirer intends not to use or to use in a
way that is different from the way other market
participants would use them
To protect its competitive position, or for other reasons, the acquirer may
intend not to use an acquired non-financial asset actively, or it may not intend
to use the asset according to its highest and best use. For example, that might
be the case for an acquired research and development intangible asset that the
acquirer plans to use defensively by preventing others from using it.
Nevertheless, the acquirer shall measure the fair value of the non-financial
asset assuming its highest and best use by market participants in accordance
with the appropriate valuation premise, both initially and when measuring
fair value less costs of disposal for subsequent impairment testing.
Non-controlling interest in an acquiree
This IFRS allows the acquirer to measure a non-controlling interest in the
acquiree at its fair value at the acquisition date. Sometimes an acquirer will be
able to measure the acquisition-date fair value of a non-controlling interest on
the basis of a quoted price in an active market for the equity shares (ie those
not held by the acquirer). In other situations, however, a quoted price in an
active market for the equity shares will not be available. In those situations,
the acquirer would measure the fair value of the non-controlling interest
using other valuation techniques.
B41
B42
B43
B44
IFRS 3
A228
© IFRS Foundation

PDF File: ifrs-3-business-combinations.pdf
Page 39:
The 
fair 
values 
of 
the 
acquirer’s 
interest 
in 
the 
acquiree 
and
the non-controlling interest on a per-share basis might differ. The main
difference is likely to be the inclusion of a control premium in the per-share
fair value of the acquirer’s interest in the acquiree or, conversely, the
inclusion of a discount for lack of control (also referred to as a non-controlling
interest discount) in the per-share fair value of the non-controlling interest if
market participants would take into account such a premium or discount
when pricing the non-controlling interest.
Measuring goodwill or a gain from a bargain purchase
Measuring the acquisition-date fair value of the acquirer’s
interest in the acquiree using valuation techniques
(application of paragraph 33)
In a business combination achieved without the transfer of consideration, the
acquirer must substitute the acquisition-date fair value of its interest in the
acquiree for the acquisition-date fair value of the consideration transferred to
measure goodwill or a gain on a bargain purchase (see paragraphs 32–34).
Special considerations in applying the acquisition
method to combinations of mutual entities (application of
paragraph 33)
When two mutual entities combine, the fair value of the equity or member
interests in the acquiree (or the fair value of the acquiree) may be more
reliably measurable than the fair value of the member interests transferred by
the acquirer. In that situation, paragraph 33 requires the acquirer to
determine the amount of goodwill by using the acquisition-date fair value of
the acquiree’s equity interests instead of the acquisition-date fair value of the
acquirer’s equity interests transferred as consideration. In addition, the
acquirer in a combination of mutual entities shall recognise the acquiree’s net
assets as a direct addition to capital or equity in its statement of financial
position, not as an addition to retained earnings, which is consistent with the
way in which other types of entities apply the acquisition method.
Although they are similar in many ways to other businesses, mutual
entities have distinct characteristics that arise primarily because their
members are both customers and owners. Members of mutual entities
generally expect to receive benefits for their membership, often in the form of
reduced fees charged for goods and services or patronage dividends. The
portion of patronage dividends allocated to each member is often based on the
amount of business the member did with the mutual entity during the year.
A fair value measurement of a mutual entity should include the assumptions
that market participants would make about future member benefits as well as
any other relevant assumptions market participants would make about the
mutual entity. For example, a present value technique may be used to
measure the fair value of a mutual entity. The cash flows used as inputs to the
model should be based on the expected cash flows of the mutual entity, which
B45
B46
B47
B48
B49
IFRS 3
© IFRS Foundation
A229

PDF File: ifrs-3-business-combinations.pdf
Page 40:
are likely to reflect reductions for member benefits, such as reduced fees
charged for goods and services.
Determining what is part of the business combination transaction
(application of paragraphs 51 and 52)
The acquirer should consider the following factors, which are neither
mutually exclusive nor individually conclusive, to determine whether a
transaction is part of the exchange for the acquiree or whether the
transaction is separate from the business combination:
(a)
the reasons for the transaction—Understanding the reasons why the
parties to the combination (the acquirer and the acquiree and their
owners, directors and managers—and their agents) entered into a
particular transaction or arrangement may provide insight into
whether it is part of the consideration transferred and the assets
acquired or liabilities assumed. For example, if a transaction is
arranged primarily for the benefit of the acquirer or the combined
entity rather than primarily for the benefit of the acquiree or its
former owners before the combination, that portion of the transaction
price paid (and any related assets or liabilities) is less likely to be part
of the exchange for the acquiree. Accordingly, the acquirer would
account for that portion separately from the business combination.
(b)
who initiated the transaction—Understanding who initiated the
transaction may also provide insight into whether it is part of the
exchange for the acquiree. For example, a transaction or other event
that is initiated by the acquirer may be entered into for the purpose of
providing future economic benefits to the acquirer or combined entity
with little or no benefit received by the acquiree or its former owners
before the combination. On the other hand, a transaction or
arrangement initiated by the acquiree or its former owners is less
likely to be for the benefit of the acquirer or the combined entity and
more likely to be part of the business combination transaction.
(c)
the timing of the transaction—The timing of the transaction may also
provide insight into whether it is part of the exchange for the acquiree.
For example, a transaction between the acquirer and the acquiree that
takes place during the negotiations of the terms of a business
combination may have been entered into in contemplation of the
business combination to provide future economic benefits to the
acquirer or the combined entity. If so, the acquiree or its former
owners before the business combination are likely to receive little or
no benefit from the transaction except for benefits they receive as part
of the combined entity.
B50
IFRS 3
A230
© IFRS Foundation

PDF File: ifrs-3-business-combinations.pdf
Page 41:
Effective settlement of a pre-existing relationship
between the acquirer and acquiree in a business
combination (application of paragraph 52(a))
The acquirer and acquiree may have a relationship that existed before they
contemplated the business combination, referred to here as a ‘pre-existing
relationship’. A pre-existing relationship between the acquirer and acquiree
may be contractual (for example, vendor and customer or licensor and
licensee) or non-contractual (for example, plaintiff and defendant).
If the business combination in effect settles a pre-existing relationship, the
acquirer recognises a gain or loss, measured as follows:
(a)
for a pre-existing non-contractual relationship (such as a lawsuit), fair
value.
(b)
for a pre-existing contractual relationship, the lesser of (i) and (ii):
(i)
the amount by which the contract is favourable or
unfavourable from the perspective of the acquirer when
compared with terms for current market transactions for the
same or similar items. (An unfavourable contract is a contract
that is unfavourable in terms of current market terms. It is not
necessarily an onerous contract in which the unavoidable costs
of meeting the obligations under the contract exceed the
economic benefits expected to be received under it.)
(ii)
the amount of any stated settlement provisions in the contract
available to the counterparty to whom the contract is
unfavourable.
If (ii) is less than (i), the difference is included as part of the business
combination accounting.
The amount of gain or loss recognised may depend in part on whether the
acquirer had previously recognised a related asset or liability, and the reported
gain or loss therefore may differ from the amount calculated by applying the
above requirements.
A pre-existing relationship may be a contract that the acquirer recognises as a
reacquired right. If the contract includes terms that are favourable or
unfavourable when compared with pricing for current market transactions
for the same or similar items, the acquirer recognises, separately from the
business combination, a gain or loss for the effective settlement of the
contract, measured in accordance with paragraph B52.
Arrangements for contingent payments to employees or
selling shareholders (application of paragraph 52(b))
Whether arrangements for contingent payments to employees or selling
shareholders are contingent consideration in the business combination or are
separate transactions depends on the nature of the arrangements.
Understanding the reasons why the acquisition agreement includes a
provision for contingent payments, who initiated the arrangement and when
B51
B52
B53
B54
IFRS 3
© IFRS Foundation
A231

PDF File: ifrs-3-business-combinations.pdf
Page 42:
the parties entered into the arrangement may be helpful in assessing the
nature of the arrangement.
If it is not clear whether an arrangement for payments to employees or selling
shareholders is part of the exchange for the acquiree or is a transaction
separate from the business combination, the acquirer should consider the
following indicators:
(a)
Continuing employment—The terms of continuing employment by the
selling shareholders who become key employees may be an indicator
of the substance of a contingent consideration arrangement. The
relevant terms of continuing employment may be included in an
employment agreement, acquisition agreement or some other
document. A contingent consideration arrangement in which the
payments are automatically forfeited if employment terminates is
remuneration for post-combination services. Arrangements in which
the contingent payments are not affected by employment termination
may 
indicate 
that 
the 
contingent 
payments 
are 
additional
consideration rather than remuneration.
(b)
Duration of continuing employment—If the period of required employment
coincides with or is longer than the contingent payment period, that
fact may indicate that the contingent payments are, in substance,
remuneration.
(c)
Level of remuneration—Situations in which employee remuneration other
than the contingent payments is at a reasonable level in comparison
with that of other key employees in the combined entity may indicate
that the contingent payments are additional consideration rather than
remuneration.
(d)
Incremental payments to employees—If selling shareholders who do not
become employees receive lower contingent payments on a per-share
basis than the selling shareholders who become employees of the
combined entity, that fact may indicate that the incremental amount
of contingent payments to the selling shareholders who become
employees is remuneration.
(e)
Number of shares owned—The relative number of shares owned by the
selling shareholders who remain as key employees may be an indicator
of the substance of the contingent consideration arrangement. For
example, if the selling shareholders who owned substantially all of the
shares in the acquiree continue as key employees, that fact may
indicate that the arrangement is, in substance, a profit-sharing
arrangement intended to provide remuneration for post-combination
services. Alternatively, if selling shareholders who continue as key
employees owned only a small number of shares of the acquiree and
all selling shareholders receive the same amount of contingent
consideration on a per-share basis, that fact may indicate that the
contingent payments are additional consideration. The pre-acquisition
ownership interests held by parties related to selling shareholders who
B55
IFRS 3
A232
© IFRS Foundation

PDF File: ifrs-3-business-combinations.pdf
Page 43:
continue as key employees, such as family members, should also be
considered.
(f)
Linkage to the valuation—If the initial consideration transferred at the
acquisition date is based on the low end of a range established in the
valuation of the acquiree and the contingent formula relates to that
valuation approach, that fact may suggest that the contingent
payments are additional consideration. Alternatively, if the contingent
payment formula is consistent with prior profit-sharing arrangements,
that fact may suggest that the substance of the arrangement is to
provide remuneration.
(g)
Formula for determining consideration—The formula used to determine
the contingent payment may be helpful in assessing the substance of
the arrangement. For example, if a contingent payment is determined
on the basis of a multiple of earnings, that might suggest that the
obligation is contingent consideration in the business combination and
that the formula is intended to establish or verify the fair value of the
acquiree. In contrast, a contingent payment that is a specified
percentage of earnings might suggest that the obligation to employees
is a profit-sharing arrangement to remunerate employees for services
rendered.
(h)
Other agreements and issues—The terms of other arrangements with
selling shareholders (such as agreements not to compete, executory
contracts, consulting contracts and property lease agreements) and the
income tax treatment of contingent payments may indicate that
contingent payments are attributable to something other than
consideration for the acquiree. For example, in connection with the
acquisition, the acquirer might enter into a property lease
arrangement with a significant selling shareholder. If the lease
payments specified in the lease contract are significantly below
market, some or all of the contingent payments to the lessor (the
selling shareholder) required by a separate arrangement for contingent
payments might be, in substance, payments for the use of the leased
property that the acquirer should recognise separately in its
post-combination financial statements. In contrast, if the lease
contract specifies lease payments that are consistent with market
terms for the leased property, the arrangement for contingent
payments to the selling shareholder may be contingent consideration
in the business combination.
IFRS 3
© IFRS Foundation
A233

PDF File: ifrs-3-business-combinations.pdf
Page 44:
Acquirer share-based payment awards exchanged for
awards held by the acquiree’s employees (application of
paragraph 52(b))
An acquirer may exchange its share-based payment awards1 (replacement
awards) for awards held by employees of the acquiree. Exchanges of share
options or other share-based payment awards in conjunction with a business
combination are accounted for as modifications of share-based payment
awards in accordance with IFRS 2 Share-based Payment. If the acquirer replaces
the acquiree awards, either all or a portion of the market-based measure of
the acquirer’s replacement awards shall be included in measuring the
consideration transferred in the business combination. Paragraphs B57–B62
provide guidance on how to allocate the market-based measure. However, in
situations in which acquiree awards would expire as a consequence of a
business combination and if the acquirer replaces those awards when it is not
obliged to do so, all of the market-based measure of the replacement awards
shall be recognised as remuneration cost in the post-combination financial
statements in accordance with IFRS 2. That is to say, none of the market-based
measure of those awards shall be included in measuring the consideration
transferred in the business combination. The acquirer is obliged to replace the
acquiree awards if the acquiree or its employees have the ability to enforce
replacement. For example, for the purposes of applying this guidance, the
acquirer is obliged to replace the acquiree’s awards if replacement is required
by:
(a)
the terms of the acquisition agreement;
(b)
the terms of the acquiree’s awards; or
(c)
applicable laws or regulations.
To determine the portion of a replacement award that is part of the
consideration transferred for the acquiree and the portion that is
remuneration for post-combination service, the acquirer shall measure both
the replacement awards granted by the acquirer and the acquiree awards as of
the acquisition date in accordance with IFRS 2. The portion of the
market-based measure of the replacement award that is part of the
consideration transferred in exchange for the acquiree equals the portion of
the acquiree award that is attributable to pre-combination service.
The portion of the replacement award attributable to pre-combination service
is the market-based measure of the acquiree award multiplied by the ratio of
the portion of the vesting period completed to the greater of the total vesting
period or the original vesting period of the acquiree award. The vesting period
is the period during which all the specified vesting conditions are to be
satisfied. Vesting conditions are defined in IFRS 2.
B56
B57
B58
1
In paragraphs B56–B62 the term ‘share-based payment awards’ refers to vested or unvested
share-based payment transactions.
IFRS 3
A234
© IFRS Foundation

PDF File: ifrs-3-business-combinations.pdf
Page 45:
The 
portion 
of 
a 
non-vested 
replacement 
award 
attributable 
to
post-combination service, and therefore recognised as remuneration cost in
the post-combination financial statements, equals the total market-based
measure of the replacement award less the amount attributed to
pre-combination service. Therefore, the acquirer attributes any excess of the
market-based measure of the replacement award over the market-based
measure of the acquiree award to post-combination service and recognises
that excess as remuneration cost in the post-combination financial
statements. The acquirer shall attribute a portion of a replacement award to
post-combination service if it requires post-combination service, regardless of
whether employees had rendered all of the service required for their acquiree
awards to vest before the acquisition date.
The 
portion 
of 
a 
non-vested 
replacement 
award 
attributable 
to
pre-combination 
service, 
as 
well 
as 
the 
portion 
attributable 
to
post-combination service, shall reflect the best available estimate of the
number of replacement awards expected to vest. For example, if the
market-based measure of the portion of a replacement award attributed to
pre-combination service is CU100 and the acquirer expects that only 95 per
cent of the award will vest, the amount included in consideration transferred
in the business combination is CU95. Changes in the estimated number of
replacement awards expected to vest are reflected in remuneration cost for
the periods in which the changes or forfeitures occur not as adjustments to
the consideration transferred in the business combination. Similarly, the
effects of other events, such as modifications or the ultimate outcome of
awards with performance conditions, that occur after the acquisition date are
accounted for in accordance with IFRS 2 in determining remuneration cost for
the period in which an event occurs.
The same requirements for determining the portions of a replacement award
attributable to pre-combination and post-combination service apply regardless
of whether a replacement award is classified as a liability or as an equity
instrument in accordance with the provisions of IFRS 2. All changes in the
market-based measure of awards classified as liabilities after the acquisition
date and the related income tax effects are recognised in the acquirer’s
post-combination financial statements in the period(s) in which the changes
occur.
The income tax effects of replacement awards of share-based payments shall
be recognised in accordance with the provisions of IAS 12 Income Taxes.
Equity-settled share-based payment transactions of the
acquiree
The acquiree may have outstanding share-based payment transactions that the
acquirer does not exchange for its share-based payment transactions. If vested,
those 
acquiree 
share-based 
payment 
transactions 
are 
part 
of 
the
non-controlling interest in the acquiree and are measured at their
market-based measure. If unvested, they are measured at their market-based
measure as if the acquisition date were the grant date in accordance with
paragraphs 19 and 30.
B59
B60
B61
B62
B62A
IFRS 3
© IFRS Foundation
A235

PDF File: ifrs-3-business-combinations.pdf
Page 46:
The market-based measure of unvested share-based payment transactions is
allocated to the non-controlling interest on the basis of the ratio of the portion
of the vesting period completed to the greater of the total vesting period and
the original vesting period of the share-based payment transaction. The
balance is allocated to post-combination service.
Other IFRSs that provide guidance on subsequent measurement
and accounting (application of paragraph 54)
Examples of other IFRSs that provide guidance on subsequently measuring
and accounting for assets acquired and liabilities assumed or incurred in
a business combination include:
(a)
IAS 
38 
prescribes 
the 
accounting 
for 
identifiable 
intangible
assets 
acquired 
in 
a 
business 
combination.
The acquirer measures goodwill at the amount recognised at
the 
acquisition 
date 
less 
any 
accumulated 
impairment
losses. IAS 36  Impairment of Assets prescribes the accounting for
impairment losses.
(b)
[deleted]
(c)
IAS 12 prescribes the subsequent accounting for deferred tax assets
(including unrecognised deferred tax assets) and liabilities acquired in
a business combination.
(d)
IFRS 2 provides guidance on subsequent measurement and accounting
for the portion of replacement share-based payment awards issued by
an acquirer that is attributable to employees’ future services.
(e)
IFRS 10 provides guidance on accounting for changes in a parent’s
ownership interest in a subsidiary after control is obtained.
Disclosures (application of paragraphs 59 and 61)
To meet the objective in paragraph 59, the acquirer shall disclose the
following information for each business combination that occurs during the
reporting period:
(a)
the name and a description of the acquiree.
(b)
the acquisition date.
(c)
the percentage of voting equity interests acquired.
(d)
the primary reasons for the business combination and a description of
how the acquirer obtained control of the acquiree.
(e)
a 
qualitative 
description 
of 
the 
factors 
that 
make 
up
the goodwill recognised, such as expected synergies from combining
operations of the acquiree and the acquirer, intangible assets that do
not qualify for separate recognition or other factors.
B62B
B63
B64
IFRS 3
A236
© IFRS Foundation

PDF File: ifrs-3-business-combinations.pdf
Page 47:
(f)
the acquisition-date fair value of the total consideration transferred
and the acquisition-date fair value of each major class of consideration,
such as:
(i)
cash;
(ii)
other tangible or intangible assets, including a business or
subsidiary of the acquirer;
(iii)
liabilities incurred, for example, a liability for contingent
consideration; and
(iv)
equity interests of the acquirer, including the number of
instruments or interests issued or issuable and the method of
measuring the fair value of those instruments or interests.
(g)
for contingent consideration arrangements and indemnification assets:
(i)
the amount recognised as of the acquisition date;
(ii)
a description of the arrangement and the basis for determining
the amount of the payment; and
(iii)
an estimate of the range of outcomes (undiscounted) or, if a
range cannot be estimated, that fact and the reasons why a
range cannot be estimated. If the maximum amount of the
payment is unlimited, the acquirer shall disclose that fact.
(h)
for acquired receivables: 
(i)
the fair value of the receivables;
(ii)
the gross contractual amounts receivable; and
(iii)
the best estimate at the acquisition date of the contractual cash
flows not expected to be collected.
The disclosures shall be provided by major class of receivable, such as
loans, direct finance leases and any other class of receivables.
(i)
the amounts recognised as of the acquisition date for each major class
of assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
(j)
for 
each 
contingent 
liability 
recognised 
in 
accordance
with paragraph 23, the information required in paragraph 85 of
IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets. If a
contingent liability is not recognised because its fair value cannot be
measured reliably, the acquirer shall disclose:
(i)
the information required by paragraph 86 of IAS 37; and
(ii)
the reasons why the liability cannot be measured reliably.
(k)
the total amount of goodwill that is expected to be deductible for tax
purposes.
IFRS 3
© IFRS Foundation
A237

PDF File: ifrs-3-business-combinations.pdf
Page 48:
(l)
for transactions that are recognised separately from the acquisition of
assets and assumption of liabilities in the business combination in
accordance with paragraph 51:
(i)
a description of each transaction;
(ii)
how the acquirer accounted for each transaction;
(iii)
the amounts recognised for each transaction and the line item
in the financial statements in which each amount is recognised;
and
(iv)
if the transaction is the effective settlement of a pre-existing
relationship, the method used to determine the settlement
amount.
(m)
the disclosure of separately recognised transactions required by (l)
shall include the amount of acquisition-related costs and, separately,
the amount of those costs recognised as an expense and the line item
or items in the statement of comprehensive income in which those
expenses are recognised. The amount of any issue costs not recognised
as an expense and how they were recognised shall also be disclosed.
(n)
in a bargain purchase (see paragraphs 34–36):
(i)
the 
amount 
of 
any 
gain 
recognised 
in 
accordance
with paragraph 34 and the line item in the statement of
comprehensive income in which the gain is recognised; and
(ii)
a description of the reasons why the transaction resulted in a
gain.
(o)
for each business combination in which the acquirer holds less than
100 per cent of the equity interests in the acquiree at the acquisition
date:
(i)
the amount of the non-controlling interest in the acquiree
recognised at the acquisition date and the measurement basis
for that amount; and
(ii)
for each non-controlling interest in an acquiree measured at
fair value, the valuation technique(s) and significant inputs
used to measure that value.
(p)
in a business combination achieved in stages:
(i)
the acquisition-date fair value of the equity interest in the
acquiree held by the acquirer immediately before the
acquisition date; and
(ii)
the amount of any gain or loss recognised as a result of
remeasuring to fair value the equity interest in the acquiree
held by the acquirer before the business combination
(see paragraph 42) and the line item in the statement of
comprehensive income in which that gain or loss is recognised.
IFRS 3
A238
© IFRS Foundation

PDF File: ifrs-3-business-combinations.pdf
Page 49:
(q)
the following information:
(i)
the amounts of revenue and profit or loss of the acquiree since
the acquisition date included in the consolidated statement of
comprehensive income for the reporting period; and
(ii)
the revenue and profit or loss of the combined entity for the
current reporting period as though the acquisition date for all
business combinations that occurred during the year had been
as of the beginning of the annual reporting period.
If disclosure of any of the information required by this subparagraph is
impracticable, the acquirer shall disclose that fact and explain why the
disclosure is impracticable. This IFRS uses the term ‘impracticable’
with the same meaning as in IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in
Accounting Estimates and Errors.
For individually immaterial business combinations occurring during the
reporting period that are material collectively, the acquirer shall disclose in
aggregate the information required by paragraph B64(e)–(q).
If the acquisition date of a business combination is after the end of the
reporting period but before the financial statements are authorised for issue,
the acquirer shall disclose the information required by paragraph B64 unless
the initial accounting for the business combination is incomplete at the time
the financial statements are authorised for issue. In that situation, the
acquirer shall describe which disclosures could not be made and the reasons
why they cannot be made.
To meet the objective in paragraph 61, the acquirer shall disclose the
following information for each material business combination or in the
aggregate for individually immaterial business combinations that are material
collectively:
(a)
if the initial accounting for a business combination is incomplete
(see paragraph 45) for particular assets, liabilities, non-controlling
interests or items of consideration and the amounts recognised in the
financial statements for the business combination thus have been
determined only provisionally:
(i)
the reasons why the initial accounting for the business
combination is incomplete;
(ii)
the assets, liabilities, equity interests or items of consideration
for which the initial accounting is incomplete; and
(iii)
the 
nature 
and 
amount 
of 
any 
measurement 
period
adjustments recognised during the reporting period in
accordance with paragraph 49.
(b)
for each reporting period after the acquisition date until the entity
collects, sells or otherwise loses the right to a contingent
consideration asset, or until the entity settles a contingent
consideration liability or the liability is cancelled or expires:
B65
B66
B67
IFRS 3
© IFRS Foundation
A239

PDF File: ifrs-3-business-combinations.pdf
Page 50:
(i)
any changes in the recognised amounts, including any
differences arising upon settlement;
(ii)
any changes in the range of outcomes (undiscounted) and the
reasons for those changes; and
(iii)
the valuation techniques and key model inputs used to measure
contingent consideration.
(c)
for contingent liabilities recognised in a business combination, the
acquirer shall disclose the information required by paragraphs 84 and
85 of IAS 37 for each class of provision.
(d)
a reconciliation of the carrying amount of goodwill at the beginning
and end of the reporting period showing separately:
(i)
the gross amount and accumulated impairment losses at the
beginning of the reporting period.
(ii)
additional goodwill recognised during the reporting period,
except goodwill included in a disposal group that, on
acquisition, meets the criteria to be classified as held for sale in
accordance with IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and
Discontinued Operations.
(iii)
adjustments resulting from the subsequent recognition of
deferred tax assets during the reporting period in accordance
with paragraph 67.
(iv)
goodwill included in a disposal group classified as held for sale
in accordance with IFRS 5 and goodwill derecognised during
the reporting period without having previously been included
in a disposal group classified as held for sale.
(v)
impairment losses recognised during the reporting period in
accordance with IAS 36. (IAS 36 requires disclosure of
information about the recoverable amount and impairment of
goodwill in addition to this requirement.)
(vi)
net exchange rate differences arising during the reporting
period in accordance with IAS 21 The Effects of Changes in Foreign
Exchange Rates.
(vii)
any other changes in the carrying amount during the reporting
period.
(viii)
the gross amount and accumulated impairment losses at the
end of the reporting period.
(e)
the amount and an explanation of any gain or loss recognised in the
current reporting period that both:
(i)
relates to the identifiable assets acquired or liabilities assumed
in a business combination that was effected in the current or
previous reporting period; and
IFRS 3
A240
© IFRS Foundation

PDF File: ifrs-3-business-combinations.pdf
Page 51:
(ii)
is of such a size, nature or incidence that disclosure is relevant
to understanding the combined entity’s financial statements.
Transitional provisions for business combinations involving only
mutual entities or by contract alone (application of paragraph 66)
Paragraph 64 provides that this IFRS applies prospectively to business
combinations for which the acquisition date is on or after the beginning of the
first annual reporting period beginning on or after 1 July 2009. Earlier
application is permitted. However, an entity shall apply this IFRS only at the
beginning of an annual reporting period that begins on or after 30 June 2007.
If an entity applies this IFRS before its effective date, the entity shall disclose
that fact and shall apply IAS 27 (as amended in 2008) at the same time.
The requirement to apply this IFRS prospectively has the following effect for a
business combination involving only mutual entities or by contract alone if
the acquisition date for that business combination is before the application of
this IFRS:
(a)
Classification—An entity shall continue to classify the prior business
combination in accordance with the entity’s previous accounting
policies for such combinations.
(b)
Previously recognised goodwill—At the beginning of the first annual
period in which this IFRS is applied, the carrying amount of goodwill
arising from the prior business combination shall be its carrying
amount at that date in accordance with the entity’s previous
accounting policies. In determining that amount, the entity shall
eliminate the carrying amount of any accumulated amortisation of
that goodwill and the corresponding decrease in goodwill. No other
adjustments shall be made to the carrying amount of goodwill.
(c)
Goodwill previously recognised as a deduction from equity—The entity’s
previous accounting policies may have resulted in goodwill arising
from the prior business combination being recognised as a deduction
from equity. In that situation the entity shall not recognise that
goodwill as an asset at the beginning of the first annual period in
which this IFRS is applied. Furthermore, the entity shall not recognise
in profit or loss any part of that goodwill when it disposes of all or part
of the business to which that goodwill relates or when a
cash-generating unit to which the goodwill relates becomes impaired.
(d)
Subsequent accounting for goodwill—From the beginning of the first
annual period in which this IFRS is applied, an entity shall discontinue
amortising goodwill arising from the prior business combination and
shall test goodwill for impairment in accordance with IAS 36.
(e)
Previously recognised negative goodwill—An entity that accounted for the
prior business combination by applying the purchase method may
have recognised a deferred credit for an excess of its interest in the net
fair value of the acquiree’s identifiable assets and liabilities over the
cost of that interest (sometimes called negative goodwill). If so, the
B68
B69
IFRS 3
© IFRS Foundation
A241

PDF File: ifrs-3-business-combinations.pdf
Page 52:
entity shall derecognise the carrying amount of that deferred credit at
the beginning of the first annual period in which this IFRS is applied
with a corresponding adjustment to the opening balance of retained
earnings at that date.
IFRS 3
A242
© IFRS Foundation

PDF File: ifrs-3-business-combinations.pdf
Page 53:
Appendix C
Amendments to other IFRSs
The amendments in this appendix shall be applied for annual reporting periods beginning on or after
1 July 2009. If an entity applies this IFRS for an earlier period, these amendments shall be applied for
that earlier period. Amended paragraphs are shown with new text underlined and deleted text struck
through.
* * * * *
The amendments contained in this appendix when this revised IFRS was issued in 2008 have been
incorporated into the relevant IFRSs published in this volume.
IFRS 3
© IFRS Foundation
A243

PDF File: ifrs-3-business-combinations.pdf
Page 54:
Approval by the Board of IFRS 3 issued in January 2008
International Financial Reporting Standard 3 Business Combinations (as revised in 2008) was
approved for issue by eleven of the fourteen members of the International Accounting
Standards Board. Professor Barth and Messrs Garnett and Smith dissented. Their
dissenting opinions are set out after the Basis for Conclusions.
Sir David Tweedie
Chairman
Thomas E Jones
Vice-Chairman
Mary E Barth
Hans-Georg Bruns
Anthony T Cope
Philippe Danjou
Jan Engström
Robert P Garnett
Gilbert Gélard
James J Leisenring
Warren J McGregor
Patricia L O’Malley
John T Smith
Tatsumi Yamada
IFRS 3
A244
© IFRS Foundation

PDF File: ifrs-3-business-combinations.pdf
Page 55:
Approval by the Board of Definition of a Business issued in
October 2018
Definition of a Business was approved for issue by all of the 14 members of the International
Accounting Standards Board.
Hans Hoogervorst
Chairman
Suzanne Lloyd
Vice-Chair
Nick Anderson
Martin Edelmann
Françoise Flores
Amaro Luiz de Oliveira Gomes
Gary Kabureck
Jianqiao Lu
Takatsugu Ochi
Darrel Scott
Thomas Scott
Chungwoo Suh
Ann Tarca
Mary Tokar
IFRS 3
© IFRS Foundation
A245

PDF File: ifrs-3-business-combinations.pdf
Page 56:
Approval by the Board of Reference to the Conceptual Framework
issued in May 2020
Reference to the Conceptual Framework, which amended IFRS 3, was approved for issue by all
14 members of the International Accounting Standards Board.
Hans Hoogervorst
Chairman
Suzanne Lloyd
Vice-Chair
Nick Anderson
Tadeu Cendon
Martin Edelmann
Françoise Flores
Gary Kabureck
Jianqiao Lu
Darrel Scott
Thomas Scott
Chungwoo Suh
Rika Suzuki
Ann Tarca
Mary Tokar
IFRS 3
A246
© IFRS Foundation

